
##  THE LEGIONES ASTARTES {#the-legiones-astartes .unnumbered}

he Legiones Astartes are the work of the Emperor's extended labours in
genetic manipulation. When he first set out to conquer Terra, he
unleashed

his 'Thunder Warriors', gen-hanced soldiers named for the thunderbolt
and raptor's head heraldry of their master. They were unprecedented in
their physical strength and endurance yet deeply flawed, inevitably
leading to both mental and biological degradation.

To rectify such flaws, the Emperor sought a more permanent and stable
force of enhanced warriors. As he waged war to unify Terra beneath his
rule, the Emperor gathered around Him an order of savants and
gene-wrights to forge a new army suited to his purpose. This labour
went on for decades and was conducted in absolute secrecy. Eventually,
the Legiones Astartes project created an army of toughened warriors,
strong of arm and iron in will, that were unflinchingly loyal to Him.
The process was quickly refined and systematised, and the numbers

of these new enhanced warriors grew swiftly, leading them to be
organised into twenty distinct regiments that in turn grew into the
twenty Space Marine Legions. Only eighteen would survive to grow into
vast forces -- as to the fate of those that did not, this record does
not speak.

When the Emperor's ambitions turned to the stars, it was the Legiones
Astartes that formed the principal fighting force of his armies. As
the Great Crusade reached out across the galaxy, each Space Marine
Legion was reunited with its Primarch, with each one given command
over the Legion which shared their genetic heritage. In time, the
Legions underwent great changes, both logistically and
psychologically, as each Primarch shaped those under their command to
their will. Loyalty to

the Primarch was near-absolute thanks to the bond a Legion shared with
their primogenitor; whether such a bond was due to a notion of
paternal loyalty,

a brotherhood of arms forged over countless battles, or the genetic
legacy held within each Space Marine, is impossible to determine.
Regardless of the source, the intense loyalty a Legion held for its
Primarch no doubt contributed to nine of the Legions turning against
the Emperor and waging war upon the Imperium.

#### The Legions {#the-legions .unnumbered}

A Space Marine Legion is a frontline force of shock infantry
consisting of tens of thousands of super-warriors armed and equipped
with the finest wargear the Imperium can supply. Each member of the
Legiones Astartes carries the martial

worth of many times their number in terms of regular troops, for each
is a killing machine bred for war -- tireless, faster, and more
disciplined and clear-sighted than any mortal warrior. A Legion
assembled in its full might can conquer worlds in days, and wields the
power to doom entire civilisations and species to extinction.

The early Legions owed much of their organisation to the ancient and
proven Terran patterns of strategy combined with the Emperor's own
tactical genius. Over the two centuries of the Great Crusade, the
structure and personality of each Legion evolved in innumerable ways,
influenced by the worlds they recruited from, the customs

and hierarchies that naturally developed within their ranks, and the
tenets of their Primarch. By the outbreak of the Horus Heresy, each
Legion had its own distinct character and divergent order of battle.
These unique divisions would birth rivalries and, over time, lead to
feuds which would erupt with the advent of the Horus Heresy.

![](../media/image175.png){width="0.8670024059492564in"
height="0.2887128171478565in"}![](../media/image176.png){width="9.063497375328083in"
height="8.19623797025372in"}•

• •

**Legion Command**

**Primarch**

**Praetorate or Ancients of the Legion** (Senior Staff Officer Cadre)

**Consular Representatives^†^**

\[^†^Senior representatives of the Armourium, Astropathic Chamber,
Navigators-Plenipotentiary, Librarus (when present), Apothecarion,
Masters of the Fleet, Castrum of Ordnance, Castellans of Domain, et
al\]

**Vexillarius** (Legion Standard Bearers, Subalterns and Equerries)

**Honour Guard** (Praetorian Bodyguard Formations---number and
structure varied by Legion)

#########  Legion Assets {#legion-assets .unnumbered}

-   Planetary Domains

-   Capital Class War Ships

-   Secondary Escort Squadrons

-   Legion Armourium

-   Legion Apothecarion

-   Legion Librarus (where present)

-   Auxiliary Forces (Non-Space Marine)

-   Legion Support Corps (Victuallers, Commissary, Serfs, Indentures,
    Servitors, etc).

+--------+------------+------------+------------+------------+--------+
| **Cha  | *        | *        | *        | *        |      |
| pter** | *Chapter** | *Chapter** | *Chapter** | *Chapter** |  **Cha |
|        |            |            |            |            | pter** |
+========+============+============+============+============+========+
| **I**  | **II**   | **III**  | **IV**   | **V**    |      |
|        |            |            |            |            | **VI** |
+--------+------------+------------+------------+------------+--------+

*Originally each Chapter was comprised roughly of a thousand line
Legionaries, but as the Legions grew this itself began to vary
substantially by Legion, and also through the vicissitudes of war and
the availability of replacement recruits.*

**Battalion\* Battalion I** **II**

######## [BattalionCommand(example)]{.smallcaps} {#battalioncommandexample .unnumbered}

*(Battalions were alternatively designated as Cohorts, Regiments,
Battle Groups, etc)*

**Lieutenant Commander**

(Alternatively designated as Commander, First Captain, Shadow Captain,
Marshal, Legate, etc)

**Battalion Consuls** (Senior Specialists and Advisors)

**Battalion Vexillarius** (Standard Bearers, Subalterns and Equerries)

**Battalion Command Bodyguard**

######### Battalion Assets {#battalion-assets .unnumbered}

-   Strike Cruisers

-   Navigators Ordinary

-   Drop Pods and Rams

-   Light Gunship Squadrons

-   Super-heavy Detachments

-   Skimmer Strike Detachments

-   Support Artillery Detachments

-   Techmarine Covenants

-   Apothecarion Sections

-   Dreadnought Talons

-   Reconnaissance Sections

**Company Company Company I II** **III**

\**Nominally Battalions numbered five companies each of a hundred
Legionaries -- Battalion I was composed of Veterans and other elite
units, II, III and IV were line companies and the V^th^ Company
comprised entirely of specialist troops such as dedicated assault,
outrider or destroyer units. However in practice many larger Legions
regularly exceeded this, maintaining battalions with seven or*

*ten companies each folded under a particular command, while
individual*

*companies also varied in strength.*

![](../media/image177.png){width="9.448832020997376in"
height="12.99215223097113in"}

*Company, battalion and even Chapter-level strike forces can be
created by assigning higher-level assets to subordinate line units in
order to create forces designed to undertake a myriad of specific
battlefield tasks. As a result, the standardised administrative
organisation shown here would rarely serve as a tactical battlefield
formation, and in practice individual forces would be temporarily
combined in numerous different configurations.*

**Strategic Disposition of a Space Marine Legion**

**Notional Organisation Late Great Crusade Era**

+--------+------------+------------+------------+------------+--------+
| **Cha  | *        | *        | *        | *        | **Cha  |
| pter** | *Chapter** | *Chapter** | *Chapter** | *Chapter** | pter** |
+========+============+============+============+============+========+
| *      | **VIII** | **IX**   | **X**    | **XI**   | **XII( |
| *VII** |            |            |            |            | etc)** |
+--------+------------+------------+------------+------------+--------+

######## ![](../media/image178.png){width="9.448832020997376in" height="12.99215223097113in"}[ChapterCommand(example)]{.smallcaps} {#chaptercommandexample .unnumbered}

*(Chapters were alternatively designated as Great Companies, Harrows,
Millennials, etc)*

**Lord Commander**

*(Alternatively Chapter Master, Khan, Warsmith, Magister, etc)*

**Chapter Consuls** (Senior Specialists and Advisors to the Lord
Commander) **Chapter Vexillarius** (Chapter Standard Bearers,
Subalterns and Equerries) **Chapter Command Bodyguard**

**Battalion Battalion**

**I** **II**

*Nominally each Battalion was composed of five hundred line
Legionaries each, as well as various specialists and support staff.*

######## [CompanyCommand(example)]{.smallcaps} {#companycommandexample .unnumbered}

*(Companies were alternatively designated as Maniples, Bands,
Brotherhoods, etc)* **Company Captain** *(alternatively Centurion,
Prime, Wolf Lord, Blooded, etc)* **Company Standard Bearer**

**Company Command Bodyguard Squad**

**1^st^ Demi-Company 2^nd^ Demi-Company 3^rd^ Demi-Company 1^st^
Lieutenant 2^nd^ Lieutenant 3^rd^ Lieutenant**

*(Lieutenants were the most junior officers of the Legion. They also
differed in designations such as Dominar, Decurion, Pack Leader or
Chieftain, and in some Legions the numerical positioning of the
officer within the Company indicated seniority or ceremonial role and
had further titles in rank).*

**Tactical Squad Tactical Squad Tactical Squad**

*(10-20 Space Marine Legionaries)*

**Tactical Squad Tactical Squad Tactical Squad**

*(10-20 Space Marine Legionaries)*

**Support Squad Support Squad Support Squad**

*(5-10 Space Marine Legionaries)*

######### Chapter Assets {#chapter-assets .unnumbered}

-   Chapter Flagship Battle Barge/ Capital Ship

-   Planetary Assault Craft and Drop Ships

-   Escort Squadrons

-   Gunship Squadrons

-   Chapter Armourium

-   Legion Armoured Divisions

######### Company Assets {#company-assets .unnumbered}

-   Heavy Support Squads (5-10 Space Marine Legionaries)

-   Assigned Veteran or Specialist Squads (Various)

-   Gunships

-   Rhino Armoured Transports

-   Tank Detachments

-   Support Weapons Batteries

-   Dreadnoughts

-   Techmarines

-   Apothecaries

*Reinforced companies may field additional Demi-Companies. By the
later period of the civil war these would often be rapidly constituted
'Inductii' reinforcement units.*

## LEGIONES ASTARTES DEMI-COMPANY {#legiones-astartes-demi-company .unnumbered}

#### Death Guard {#death-guard .unnumbered}

*One example of a Demi-Company constituted in later Great Crusade-era
approved mechanised infantry configuration.*

####### Legion Command Squad {#legion-command-squad .unnumbered}

*Commanded by a junior Centurion-level 'line officer' holding the
standardised Legiones Astartes rank of 1st or 2nd Lieutenant.
Accompanied by bodyguard of veteran Legionaries who also serve as*

*aides-de-camp and who undertake various support roles outside of
combat.*

**Legion Tactical Squad**

**Legion Tactical Squad**

**Legion Tactical Support Squad**

![](../media/image179.png){width="9.448832020997376in"
height="12.99215223097113in"}

**Legion Fire Raptor Gunships**

*Close air support provided by gunships assigned from company or
battalion-level air assets.*

####### Legion Predator Tanks {#legion-predator-tanks .unnumbered}

*Detached from company-level armoured support echelon.*

####### Legion Rhino Transports {#legion-rhino-transports .unnumbered}

*Transports drawn from company transport squadron and assigned to
individual units as required.*

## LEGIONES ASTARTES GARRISON FORCE {#legiones-astartes-garrison-force .unnumbered}

#### Death Guard {#death-guard-1 .unnumbered}

*One example of a Demi-Company constituted in later Great Crusade era
approved main line / bastion defence configuration.*

####### Legion Command Squad {#legion-command-squad-1 .unnumbered}

*Commanded by a junior Centurion-level 'line officer' holding the
standardised Legiones Astartes rank of 1st or 2nd Lieutenant.
Accompanied by bodyguard of veteran Legionaries who also serve as
aides-de-camp and who undertake various support roles outside of
combat.*

**Legion Tactical Squad**

**Legion Terminator Detachment**

**Legion Deredeo Dreadnoughts**

![](../media/image180.png){width="9.448832020997376in"
height="12.99215223097113in"}

**Legion Rapier Battery Detachment**

*Rapiers provide heavy fire support in static defence, but can be
rapidly relocated to respond to enemy attack vectors.*

####### Legion Xiphon Interceptors {#legion-xiphon-interceptors .unnumbered}

*Sector-assigned combat air patrol assets undertake patrol and
interdiction duties in defence of static ground forces as required.*

####### Legion Kratos Tanks {#legion-kratos-tanks .unnumbered}

*Heavy tanks detached from company or battalion armoured support
echelons provide dynamic defence and rapid counter-attack capability
to otherwise static formations.*

#### ![](../media/image181.png){width="9.448832020997376in" height="12.99215223097113in"}Legiones Astartes Army List {#legiones-astartes-army-list .unnumbered}

The following section presents the Legiones Astartes Army List,
reflecting the Space Marine Legions during the final years of the
Great Crusade and through the Horus Heresy. Within you'll find all the
rules needed to build a Legiones Astartes Army.

**Legiones Astartes Special Rules**

When building a Legiones Astartes Army, the following special rules
apply. Some rules will mention Legiones Astartes Formations,
Detachment and/or models -- this refers to any Formation, Detachment
or model drawn from the Legiones Astartes list, and not other
Formations, Detachments and models that are part of the same

Army only.

**The Space Marine Legions:** *Before the Great Crusade,*

*the Emperor created twenty Primarchs in his vaults beneath Ancient
Terra and, from their genetic line, the twenty Space Marine Legions.
By the onset of the Horus Heresy, eighteen Legions remained, with half
betraying their oaths to the Imperium and joining forces with the
Warmaster.*

When a player musters an Army using a Legiones Astartes Army List as
the Primary Army List, that player must select a Legion for each
Legiones Astartes Formation within it.

The Formation is referred to as a \[Legion Name\] Formation and all
Detachments and models within it are referred to as \[Legion Name\]
Detachments or models. Detachment and models within that Formation may
gain special rules associated with the chosen Legion (see page 154).

No Formation, Detachment or model can benefit from more than one set
of Legion rules. Different Formations within the same Legiones
Astartes Army may be from different Legions.

If Legiones Astartes Formations are included in a non- Legiones
Astartes Army through Allied Contingents, then they too must choose a
Legion and gain the special rules associated with it. All Legiones
Astartes Allied Contingents within an Army must be drawn from the same
Legion.

*For example, Tom selects the Legiones Astartes Army List as his
Primary Army List, and chooses the Thousand Sons Legion for two of his
Formations. As such, all Detachments within those Formations are
referred to as Thousand Sons Formations, Detachments and models. If a
third Formation is added and Tom decides they will be Dark Angels,
then all Detachments within the Formation are referred to as Dark
Angels Detachments.*

Certain Formations presented in future supplements may be exclusively
available to certain Legions, and thus can only include models with
that Legion special rule. Similarly, some Detachments might only be
available to certain Legions, and thus can only be included in
Formations of that Legion. Where this is the case it will always be
clearly stated as part of the Detachment's datasheet.

A player can declare their Formations are drawn from any Legion,
regardless of the Army's Allegiance -- though

certain Legions sided with the Emperor or the Warmaster, it was not
unknown for disparate elements to go against the will of their
Primarch and choose a different path during the Horus Heresy. The only
restrictions are units that are specifically Loyalist or Traitor (see
the Loyalist and Traitors special rules in the Special Rules section).

![](../media/image182.png){width="9.448832020997376in"
height="12.99215223097113in"}

####### Legiones Astartes Formations {#legiones-astartes-formations .unnumbered}

**Legion Demi-Company**

Demi-Companies were the heart of every Legion, formed of several
contingents of Tactical Legionaries working in concert with support
units. Tactically flexible, Demi-Companies were trained to fight
alongside other Legion assets, such as aerial support or armoured
units, to ensure battle readiness in the face of myriad threats.

**COMPULSORY DETACHMENTS OPTIONAL DETACHMENTS**

![](../media/image183.png){width="9.448832020997376in"
height="12.99215223097113in"}

**Dedicated Transports:** Any Legiones Astartes Detachment within the
Formation that contains only Infantry models may be upgraded with
Legion Rhinos as Dedicated Transports.

**Heart of the Legion:** Compulsory Core Detachment slots in this
Formation must be filled with Legion Tactical Detachments. All
non-Infantry models within this Formation increase their Tactical
Strength by 1 when contesting an Objective marker that an Infantry
model within this Formation is also contesting.

One of the following:

One of the following:

![](../media/image184.png){width="9.448832020997376in"
height="12.99215223097113in"}**Legion Garrison Force**

Elements of the Legiones Astartes were tasked with garrisoning planets
on the Imperium's frontier or securing strongholds in an active
theatre of war. Rapier Batteries, Legionaries with heavy weapons and
Legion aerial assets were common support elements amongst such forces,
reinforcing the formation's ability to throw

back assailants.

**COMPULSORY DETACHMENTS OPTIONAL DETACHMENTS**

One of the following:

**Legion Armoured Company**

Armoured Companies were dedicated sub-sections of armoured units
deployed to oppose enemy armour formations and to destroy fortified
positions. Each Legion could call upon an array of war machines,
including numerous Predator variants and the Sicaran battle tank.

**COMPULSORY DETACHMENTS OPTIONAL DETACHMENTS**

**Battle Tank Battle Tank**

**Heavy Armour**

**Light Armour**

**Heavy Armour**

**Battle Tank Battle Tank**

One of the following:

**Air Support**

**Heavy Armour**

**Legion Aerial Assault**

A Legion's aerial units were designed to support its methods of war
and included numerous patterns of gunships which provided overwhelming
firepower and the capacity for rapid troop deployment.

**COMPULSORY DETACHMENTS**

**HQ Support**

**OPTIONAL DETACHMENTS**

**Core Air**

**Support**

**Core Vanguard**

**Support**

**Core**

**Air Support**

![](../media/image185.png){width="9.448832020997376in"
height="12.992158792650919in"}![](../media/image10.png){width="9.448766404199475in"
height="13.227759186351706in"}![](../media/image186.png){width="7.559066054243219in"
height="5.0623326771653545in"}![](../media/image187.png){width="7.558999343832021in"
height="4.843999343832021in"}![](../media/image188.png){width="0.7948326771653543in"
height="0.7948326771653543in"}![](../media/image189.png){width="0.6913331146106737in"
height="0.2981660104986877in"}![](../media/image188.png){width="0.7948326771653543in"
height="0.7948326771653543in"}![](../media/image190.png){width="0.6628324584426947in"
height="0.387166447944007in"}![](../media/image188.png){width="0.7948326771653543in"
height="0.7948326771653543in"}![](../media/image190.png){width="0.6628324584426947in"
height="0.387166447944007in"}![](../media/image191.png){width="0.786499343832021in"
height="0.786499343832021in"}![](../media/image192.png){width="0.6675in"
height="0.306499343832021in"}![](../media/image191.png){width="0.786499343832021in"
height="0.786499343832021in"}![](../media/image193.png){width="0.6913331146106737in"
height="0.2981660104986877in"}![](../media/image191.png){width="0.786499343832021in"
height="0.786499343832021in"}![](../media/image194.png){width="0.6628324584426947in"
height="0.387166447944007in"}![](../media/image191.png){width="0.786499343832021in"
height="0.786499343832021in"}![](../media/image194.png){width="0.6628324584426947in"
height="0.387166447944007in"}![](../media/image191.png){width="0.786499343832021in"
height="0.786499343832021in"}![](../media/image193.png){width="0.6913331146106737in"
height="0.2981660104986877in"}![](../media/image191.png){width="0.786499343832021in"
height="0.786499343832021in"}![](../media/image195.png){width="0.566499343832021in"
height="0.464332895888014in"}![](../media/image188.png){width="0.7948326771653543in"
height="0.7948326771653543in"}![](../media/image196.png){width="0.5831660104986877in"
height="0.6603324584426946in"}![](../media/image188.png){width="0.7948326771653543in"
height="0.7948326771653543in"}![](../media/image197.png){width="0.4148326771653543in"
height="0.5594991251093613in"}![](../media/image188.png){width="0.7948326771653543in"
height="0.7948326771653543in"}![](../media/image198.png){width="0.4203324584426947in"
height="0.6084995625546806in"}![](../media/image199.png){width="7.558999343832021in"
height="4.848833114610674in"}![](../media/image200.png){width="0.7948326771653543in"
height="0.7948326771653543in"}![](../media/image201.png){width="0.661499343832021in"
height="0.5479997812773403in"}![](../media/image191.png){width="0.786499343832021in"
height="0.786499343832021in"}![](../media/image202.png){width="0.4148326771653543in"
height="0.5594991251093613in"}![](../media/image191.png){width="0.786499343832021in"
height="0.786499343832021in"}![](../media/image203.png){width="0.4203324584426947in"
height="0.6084995625546806in"}![](../media/image191.png){width="0.786499343832021in"
height="0.786499343832021in"}![](../media/image195.png){width="0.566499343832021in"
height="0.464332895888014in"}![](../media/image191.png){width="0.786499343832021in"
height="0.786499343832021in"}![](../media/image202.png){width="0.4148326771653543in"
height="0.5594991251093613in"}![](../media/image191.png){width="0.786499343832021in"
height="0.786499343832021in"}![](../media/image195.png){width="0.566499343832021in"
height="0.464332895888014in"}![](../media/image204.png){width="7.558999343832021in"
height="1.6666666666666666e-2in"}![](../media/image204.png){width="7.558999343832021in"
height="1.666557305336833e-2in"}![](../media/image205.png){width="7.558999343832021in"
height="5.0623326771653545in"}![](../media/image191.png){width="0.786499343832021in"
height="0.786499343832021in"}![](../media/image203.png){width="0.4203324584426947in"
height="0.6084995625546806in"}

**Dedicated Transports:** Any Legiones Astartes Detachment within a
Legion Aerial Assault Formation can be upgraded with Legion Storm
Eagles or Legion Thunderhawks as Dedicated Transports, at a cost of
+100 points per Storm Eagle and +150 points per Legion Thunderhawk.

**Aerial Assault:** All Detachments within the Formation that do not
have the Flyer special rule must begin the game Embarked upon a
Transport with the Flyer special rule.

### ![](../media/image206.png){width="9.448833114610673in" height="12.992158792650919in"}![](../media/image16.png){width="9.488194444444444in" height="13.227759186351706in"}![](../media/image207.png){width="5.324832677165355in" height="2.6673326771653545in"}![](../media/image208.png){width="5.331999125109362in" height="5.296165791776028in"}![](../media/image209.png){width="2.0984995625546805in" height="10.582666229221347in"}![](../media/image210.png){width="2.014832677165354in" height="10.368665791776028in"}![](../media/image211.png){width="2.1228324584426947in" height="0.25066601049868764in"}![](../media/image212.png){width="0.328332239720035in" height="0.328332239720035in"}![](../media/image213.png){width="1.216499343832021in" height="0.21233267716535434in"}![](../media/image13.png){width="0.383332239720035in" height="0.38333333333333336in"}![](../media/image214.png){width="1.2228324584426946in" height="0.21233267716535434in"}![](../media/image15.png){width="0.38333333333333336in" height="0.38333333333333336in"}![](../media/image215.png){width="1.3919991251093613in" height="0.21233267716535434in"}![](../media/image15.png){width="0.38333333333333336in" height="0.38333333333333336in"}![](../media/image216.png){width="1.3919991251093613in" height="0.21233267716535434in"}![](../media/image33.png){width="0.383332239720035in" height="0.38333333333333336in"}![](../media/image217.png){width="5.320833333333334in" height="0.358665791776028in"}![](../media/image217.png){width="5.320833333333334in" height="0.358665791776028in"}![](../media/image218.png){width="5.324832677165355in" height="5.255325896762905in"}![](../media/image219.png){width="5.331999125109362in" height="0.29766622922134733in"}![](../media/image220.png){width="5.320166229221347in" height="0.29766622922134733in"}![](../media/image221.png){width="5.331999125109362in" height="2.7804997812773404in"}![](../media/image222.png){width="5.331999125109362in" height="3.1923326771653544in"}![](../media/image223.png){width="5.331999125109362in" height="5.296165791776028in"}
