## LEGIONES ASTARTES SPECIAL RULES {#legiones-astartes-special-rules .unnumbered}

**Primogenitor:** Lion El'Jonson

####  The Ist Legion - Dark Angels {#the-ist-legion-dark-angels .unnumbered}

**Observed Strategic Tendencies:** None; within the Legion there was
at least one Host

**Cognomen:** (Prior) The Angels of Death, (archaic) The Uncrowned
Princes

**Noteworthy Domains:** Caliban, Gramarye, Terran Enclaves

or Order dedicated to each discipline of war

**Allegiance:** Fidelitas Constantus

Stark and uncompromising, the Dark Angels were the first of the
Emperor's Legions and the truest to the mould from which the Legiones
Astartes had been struck. They were killers of the purest and most
refined kind, for whom there could be no other destiny but a lifetime
of war and death in the name of the Imperium and Mankind. The Ist
Legion's greatest battles are to be found in no catalogue of

Compliance or roll of honour, for they fought against foes so
monstrous it was deemed necessary that their existence be erased from
history. Such was the nature of the Dark Angels, to stand as both
prosecutors of the Great Crusade and the Imperium's most potent
bulwark against the unknown terrors that lurked between the stars.

#######  Legion Special Rules {#legion-special-rules .unnumbered}

The following special rules apply to all Dark Angels models in a
Legiones Astartes Army.

**Formations of the Hexagrammaton:** At the start of the battle,
before any Detachment is deployed, determine which Dark Angels
Formations contain a total of three or more different Detachment types
--

Dedicated Transports are ignored for the purposes of this calculation.

Any Formation that meets these requirements gains one of the following
benefits, chosen by the controlling player from the list below:

-   All Detachments within the Formation that contain only Dark Angels
    Infantry models gain the Phosphex and Implacable special rules.

-   All Detachments within the Formation that contain only Cavalry
    models gain the Outflank special rule.

-   All Detachments within the Formation that contain only Vehicle
    models gain the Nimble special rule.

If a Formation has a Dedicated Transport, the model types gain the
relevant special rules but the Transports do not.

***For example:** A Dark Angels Formation contains two Legion Tactical
Detachments, a Legion Dreadnought Detachment and a Legion Predator
Detachment.*

*Therefore it meets the requirements of the Formations of the
Hexagrammaton special rule and chooses one of the special rules to
apply. If the Formation had two Legion Tactical Detachments and two
Legion Dreadnought Detachments, it would not meet the requirements,
even if the Tactical Detachments had Dedicated Transports.*

![](../media/image329.png)


*Ist Legion battle plate is black with heraldic elements and motifs
rendered in white or red.*

*Each member of this secretive Legion bears the mark of one of the six
Wings of the Hexagrammaton.*

**Primogenitor:** Fulgrim

####  The IIIrd Legion - Emperor's Children {#the-iiird-legion-emperors-children .unnumbered}

**Observed Strategic Tendencies:** Combined Arms Warfare, the use of
Complex Manoeuvre and Discursive

**Cognomen:** (Prior) None

**Noteworthy Domains:** Chemos (Primary), Terra (Tertiary rights)

Tactical Planning, Asymmetrical Assault

**Allegiance:** Traitoris Perdita

The Legionaries of the Emperor's Children have always strived to be
exemplars above all others in the arts of war, becoming paragons of
martial virtue and excellence that scorned those who did not meet

their standards. This led them to develop into a fluid,
lightning-quick force whose battles were preordained victories brought
about by a combination of acute strategic planning and flawless
execution. From this vaunted height, the IIIrd Legion would descend
into treachery and become the most vile of creatures, enslaved to
pride and consumed by desires that no natural power could fulfil.

#######  Legion Special Rules {#legion-special-rules-1 .unnumbered}

The following special rules apply to all Emperor's Children models
within a Legiones Astartes Army.

**Exemplars of War:** Once per battle, an Army that includes at least
one Formation consisting entirely of Emperor's Children models
(ignoring models within an Allied Contingent) may choose to win
Initiative instead of rolling. They must declare they are doing this
before rolling. If both players have this rule, the player who did not
have Initiative last round chooses if they use the rule first - if
they do so, no other player can use it this round.

If an Army includes at least one Allied Contingent comprised entirely
of Emperor's Children Detachments then once per battle the controlling
player may re-roll the dice roll for Initiative instead. They can only
do this if at least one Emperor's Children Detachment is on the
battlefield or in Reserve; if all have been destroyed or left the
battlefield due to other special rules, this rule has no effect.

![](../media/image330.png)


*The IIIrd Legion wears the tyrion purple of the rulers of Ancient
Terran Roma, with secondary elements including white enamel panels,
platinum inlay and black.*

**Primogenitor:** Perturabo

####  The IVth Legion - Iron Warriors {#the-ivth-legion-iron-warriors .unnumbered}

bastion-holds established on at least seventy planets plus unknown
numbers of secondary outposts and

**Cognomen:** None officially recognised. A suppressed, informal
designation for the Legion is the 'Corpse Grinders', one categorised
as an infraction of duty and *'corrosive to Crusade morale'*

**Noteworthy Domains:** The satrapy of the Mereatar Cluster, Olympia
Majoris system (primary home world: Destroyed). Primus-grade
garrisons, keeps and

watch stations

**Observed Strategic Tendencies:** Siege and Trench Warfare,
Coordinated Mass-theatre Warfare, Armoured Assault, Planetary
Decimation, Attrition, Retribution and Counter-insurgency Campaigns

**Allegiance:** Traitoris Perdita

The IVth Legion was the cold-hearted battering ram of the Great
Crusade, used to tear down every fortress said to be impregnable that
dared to stand

against the Emperor's will. The Iron Warriors saw war only in terms of
cold logic, ensuring the arithmetic and calculus of bodies and
machines sent onto the battlefield was forever in their favour. Defeat
was anathema to the Legion and victory worth any price paid in blood.
The IVth Legion was ever dutiful and reliable but never lauded. Time
and time again

its efforts and victories were overshadowed, becoming a shining blade
blunted in the mud of hundreds of worlds. Over time, the warriors of

the IVth Legion became embittered and distrusting, leading resentment
to fester in their hearts, opening a path to treachery.

#######  Legion Special Rules {#legion-special-rules-2 .unnumbered}

The following special rules apply to all Iron Warriors models in a
Legiones Astartes Army.

**The Bitter End:** When determining which player controls a neutral
Objective marker, Iron Warriors Infantry and Walker models count their
Tactical Strength as 1 higher than normal. In addition, when
determining who controls an Objective marker in a deployment zone,
Iron Warriors Infantry and Walker models count their Tactical

Strength as 2 higher than normal if within their own deployment zone.

*For example, an Iron Warriors Legion Tactical Detachment model would
contribute 7 to the total Tactical Strength instead of 5 while in its
own deployment zone, for the purposes of determining which player
controls an objective within that deployment zone (but not for other
reasons unless stated).*

![](../media/image331.png)


*The IVth Legion bears livery appropriate to its grim personality and
to its moniker - dull iron, with black inset elements and banding of
dark bronze or gold; the use of yellow hazard markings were common.*

**Primogenitor:** Jaghatai Khan

####  The Vth Legion - White Scars {#the-vth-legion-white-scars .unnumbered}

**Observed Strategic Tendencies:** Shock Assault Strikes, Highly
Mobile Hit-and-run Campaigns, and Extended

**Cognomen:** (Prior) Various (e.g., The Pioneers, Star Hunters, Blood
Debt, Vanguard, Grey Ghosts)

**Noteworthy Domains:** Chogoris/Mundus Planus (Primary), Terra
(tertiary rights), the Kolarne Cluster (multiple tributary domains)

Unsupported Operations within Hostile Domains

**Allegiance:** Fidelitas Scindo

The warriors of the Vth Legion were the pathfinders of the Great
Crusade, ever forging a path through uncharted territory far beyond
the expanding Imperium. Organising into small, mobile units,

the White Scars served as a vanguard across the stars, sowing
confusion and death amongst their foes.

They were the swift blade that probed for weakness before a sudden and
deadly strike. Theirs was the lightning that struck from clear skies
and withdrew without a trace, leaving only ashes behind.

The White Scars were often overlooked and considered the outcasts of
the Legiones Astartes, operating as they did far from the Imperium's
Core and being so culturally distinct from the Terran norm. Though
alternatively disdained or unremembered by most, it would be the Vth
Legion that would balance the scales of destiny itself, defending
Terra in the final days of the Horus Heresy.

#######  Legion Special Rules {#legion-special-rules-3 .unnumbered}

The following special rules apply to all White Scars models in a
Legiones Astartes Army.

**Born in the Saddle:** All White Scars models with the Jink (X)
special rule improve their Jink Save

(the number shown in brackets) by 1 (i.e., a model with Jink (6+)
would become Jink (5+), etc.), to a maximum of 3+.

![](../media/image332.png)


*The Vth Legion wears battle plate of ivory white, often adding a
chevron patterning in red.*

*Banding is either gold, bronze or occasionally enamelled red.*

**Primogenitor:** Leman Russ

####  The VIth Legion - Space Wolves {#the-vith-legion-space-wolves .unnumbered}

**Observed Strategic Tendencies:** Shock Assaults, Search and Destroy,
Pursuit Operations, Punitive and

**Cognomen:** (Prior) None officially recorded. Various informal and
idiomatic cognomens inconsistently used such as Vlka Fenryka, The Sky
Warriors,

The Emperor's Executioners

**Noteworthy Domains:** Fenris (Enforced Dominion), Lucan (Tertiary
rights)

Excoriation Campaign.

**Allegiance:** Fidelitas Sine Recursu

The VIth Legion always remained apart from its fellows, its origins
shrouded and its reputation fearsome.

Unexpected violence was its calling card, the Legion's campaigns
unsubtle but brutally swift. Like its namesake, the wolves of Old
Earth, the VIth Legion's assaults resembled calculated exercises in
ferocity aimed to tear and rend until the foe lay in ruins or was
driven to its death. The Legion's warriors were hunters unleashed at
the Emperor's command as a bloody- handed tool of punishment; the
Space Wolves were not builders or philosophers but simple predators,

and woe betide any who fell into their jaws.

#######  Legion Special Rules {#legion-special-rules-4 .unnumbered}

The following special rules apply to all Space Wolves models in a
Legiones Astartes Army.

**Preternatural Sense:** Enemy Detachments with the Infiltrate special
rule cannot be deployed within 16" of a Space Wolves model. In
addition, an enemy model with the Outflank special rule may not be
placed on the battlefield within 8" of any Space Wolves model when
arriving from Reserve, unless it is arriving from its own battlefield
edge.

![](../media/image333.png)


*The colours of the VIth Legion were a brooding dark grey,*

*often complemented with banding and other details dark gold and
bronze.*

**Primogenitor:** Rogal Dorn

####  The VIIth Legion - Imperial Fists {#the-viith-legion-imperial-fists .unnumbered}

**Observed Strategic Tendencies:** Ship-borne Assaults and Boarding
Actions, Defensive and Fortification

**Cognomen:** (Prior) None. Informally: The Stonemen, The Iceborn,
Sentinels of the Void, The Defenders of Terra, His Protectors

**Noteworthy Domains:** Terra, Inwit and the Solar Domains

Operations in Extremis, Stronghold Assaults, the Conquest and Forced
Compliance of Void- faring Civilisations

**Allegiance:** Fidelitas Totalis

The Imperial Fists were driven foremost by the ideals of unity. They
stood as a pillar of stability upon which the foundations of the
Imperium were built. They were ever true, unswerving from the toll
demanded by war and bearing the weight of loyalty without breaking. To
the VIIth Legion, no sacrifice

in the line of duty was too grave and they refused to flinch in the
fulfilment of their oaths. Theirs was a Legion of stoic crusaders,
architect war-masons and voidsmen without equal, masterful in attack
and defence. As the Imperium expanded ever outwards, the Imperial
Fists were always found at the leading edge, constructing mighty
fortresses at the sites of their victories to act as both garrisons
and beacons of Unification. In light of their achievements,

the Emperor chose the Legion to fortify the Imperial Palace on Terra
and the VIIth Legion stood upon its walls when the treasonous
Warmaster and his forces descended upon the Throneworld.

#######  Legion Special Rules {#legion-special-rules-5 .unnumbered}

The following special rules apply to all Imperial Fists models in a
Legiones Astartes Army.

**Disciplined Fire:** If an Imperial Fists Infantry Detachment is
issued with the First Fire Order, any weapons models within the
Detachment have that are listed below gain the Accurate trait until
the end of that round:

-   Legion bolters

-   Legion combi-bolters

-   Legion bolt pistols

-   Missile launchers

-   Plasma cannon

-   Lascannon

-   Autocannon

-   Heavy bolters

![](../media/image334.png)


*The Imperial Fists wear yellow, banded with black and occasional
details in red or white. Alternative schemes include the inverted
heraldry, with battle plate of black, with yellow helms and pauldrons,
worn by the 1st Company elite.*

#### The VIIIth Legion - Night Lords {#the-viiith-legion-night-lords .unnumbered}

**Primogenitor:** Konrad Curze (the Night Haunter)

**Cognomen:** (Prior) None recognised. Informally: The Night's
Children, The Terror

**Noteworthy Domains:** Nostramo (destroyed), Tsagualsa

**Observed Strategic Tendencies:** Punitive Actions, Decimation,
Enforced Pacification, Terror Assaults, Psychological Warfare

**Allegiance:** Traitoris Perdita

The VIIIth Legion was a force that shaped cruelty and fear into a
weapon. It was known foremost for its disproportionate and merciless
application of violence - its first blow an atrocity of such wanton
brutality that it often forced entire populations to surrender in an
effort to avoid such a fate. Any who still refused to capitulate were
subjected to an extended campaign

of terror and murder that the Night Lords possessed a singular talent
for. The VIIIth Legion was a tool of

necessity, a terrifying force of monsters created to drag a barbaric
age into the light. However, such warriors would not long stay leashed
to the Imperium. By the end of the Great Crusade, the Night Lords had
become an undisciplined mob that saw cruelty as its goal, not

a means to an end. As was fitting for a Legion of such ill-repute, it
did not go meekly to meet its fate. Instead, amid the turmoil and
destruction of the Horus Heresy, the Legion would turn against the
Imperium and itself, beginning an orgy of violence intended to sever
itself from a singular curse - its own Primarch.

#######  Legion Special Rules {#legion-special-rules-6 .unnumbered}

The following special rules apply to all Night Lords models in a
Legiones Astartes Army.

**Seeds of Dissent:** If a Night Lords model destroys an enemy model
with the Commander or the Solar

Auxilia HQ (X) special rule, each enemy Detachment within 4" of the
destroyed model suffers a number of Hits equal to three times the
starting Wounds characteristic of the destroyed model (e.g., a model
with a starting Wounds characteristic of 1 would generate 3 Hits).

When making Save rolls against these Hits, models count their Save
characteristic as equal to their Morale characteristic and cannot use
any additional saves, such as an Invulnerable Save, Cover Save, etc.,
nor can these Hits be allocated to Void Shields. Models that are part
of a Detachment that is Broken subtract 2 from the result of these
Save rolls.

Knights, Titans and models with a Morale characteristic of '-' are
unaffected by this rule.

![](../media/image335.png)


*The sons of the Night Haunter are known for a heraldry of the dark
blue of midnight. Secondary elements are picked out in black or red,
and armour banding is gold or bronze.*

**Primogenitor:** Sanguinius

####  The IXth Legion - Blood Angels {#the-ixth-legion-blood-angels .unnumbered}

**Noteworthy Domains:** Baal, Terran Enclaves, Canopus IV, Saiph

**Cognomen:** (Prior) The Revenant Legion, The Eaters of the Dead
(informal), the Charnel Feast; after Sanguinius assumed his place as
sire of the Legion, these once commonplace names became considered an
insult to the pride of the IXth Legion

**Observed Strategic Tendencies:** Orbital Drop Operations, Shock
Assault Campaigns and Macro-scale Decapitation Strikes

**Allegiance:** Fidelitas Constantus

The beatific warriors of the IXth Legion were the sons of
transformation and duality, once the very worst of Mankind, remade
bright and true. Its Legionaries were rage incarnate, unconstrained
and wrathful, yet they were paladins of the highest nobility. By
fate's will they were accursed, yet by their Primarch's hand they were
blessed. In war, the Blood Angels were the incarnation of the
Emperor's wrath upon those who rejected

the offer of unity, their coming nothing less than apocalyptic
judgement delivered from on high.

They inspired their allies and forced their foes to kneel, cowering
before the Legion's wrath and splendour.

An air of sophistication and artistry surrounded the IXth Legion, one
that concealed an internal fury that only its Primarch could truly
hold at bay.

#######  Legion Special Rules {#legion-special-rules-7 .unnumbered}

The following special rules apply to all Blood Angels models in a
Legiones Astartes Army.

**Encarmine Fury:** All models within a Blood Angels Detachment that
win a Combat may move up to 3" after all Withdrawal moves have been
completed, so long as the Detachment is not Engaged. Models can move
into base contact with enemy models

during this move. They may not Embark or Garrison a Structure as part
of this move.

If a Detachment Engages an enemy Detachment in this way that is in a
Combat but has yet to Fight, the Blood Angels Detachment may Fight
again this round. Otherwise, do not resolve the Combat. A Detachment
can only move via the Encarmine Fury rule once per round and cannot
move if it is still Engaged after the Combat is won.

![](../media/image336.png)


*The Blood Angels make war resplendent in vermillion red, with banding
and other details in shining gold.*

*Individual segments, as well as cloth details are often black.*

#### The Xth Legion - Iron Hands {#the-xth-legion-iron-hands .unnumbered}

**Primogenitor:** Ferrus Manus (also known as 'The Gorgon')

**Cognomen:** (Prior) None officially recognised. Informally, the
'Iron Tenth'

**Noteworthy Domains:** The Medusa System (Primary), sixteen other
systems held in tributary fiefdom at the closure of the Great Crusade

**Observed Strategic Tendencies:** Armoured and High- intensity
Warfare, Line-breaker Attacks, Planetary Pacifications and Suppression
Campaigns, Anti- materiel Operations

**Allegiance:** Fidelitas Constantus

The Xth Legion were renowned for their pride, their cold-hearted
ferocity and their utter remorselessness in battle. These traits made
the Iron Hands ideal warriors to serve as a hammer that shattered
countless foes in the Emperor's quest to liberate Mankind from the
darkness of Old Night. Their Primarch was Ferrus Manus, a bellicose
and uncompromising warlord and a peerless weapon-smith from whom the
Xth Legion took its name. For the Iron Hands, the Horus Heresy was

to be their darkest hour, for the Legion was undone by hubris and the
machinations of the Traitors. Upon the fields of Isstvan V, the Legion
was broken and pushed to the edge of extinction, its Primarch brutally
slain by the hand of one he had called his dearest brother. Yet the
shattered remnants of the Xth Legion did not relent, the cold fury of
its bitter vengeance making its mark across the stars.

#######  Legion Special Rules {#legion-special-rules-8 .unnumbered}

The following special rules apply to all Iron Hands models in a
Legiones Astartes Army.

**Inviolate Armour:** Iron Hands models with the Feel No Pain special
rule benefit from its effects when they suffer a Wound from a weapon
with the Light or Light AT trait, instead of just the Light trait. In
addition, any Hits scored against an Iron Hands Vehicle or Super-
heavy Vehicle issued with a First Fire Order worsen their AP by 1, to
a minimum of 0, e.g., a weapon with an AP of -2 would become -1.

The First Fire Order must still be in effect

(i.e., it cannot have Overwatched or fired yet this round) for this
rule to take effect. This does not affect the AP if Hits are allocated
to Void Shields.

![](../media/image337.png)


*The Iron Hands are ill-disposed towards superfluous adornment,
favouring varying tones of black and iron with polished chrome accents
and minimal ornamental details save clan markings.*

#### The XIIth Legion - World Eaters {#the-xiith-legion-world-eaters .unnumbered}

**Primogenitor:** Angron the Conqueror

**Cognomen:** (Prior) The War Hounds

**Noteworthy Domains:** Bodt (Muster World), Sarum (Temporary Fortress
Station), recruitment rights

to several feral worlds in the Segmentum Solar and Ultima Segmentum

**Observed Strategic Tendencies:** Shock Assault, Exterminatus
Operations, Close-quarters Actions

**Allegiance:** Traitoris Perdita

The XIIth Legion were aggression made manifest long before Horus'
rebellion. Of all the Space Marine

Legions of the Great Crusade, none were so savage and violent. They
were the hounds of war that brought death, more akin to beasts, madmen
and butchers than the mould of the Legiones Astartes. Tales of their
predations and massacres were numberless and their reputation
well-earned. In their early days, the XIIth Legion were an
unrelentingly macabre but disciplined fighting force which could adapt
to meet any foe.

Under their Primarch, the World Eaters were stripped of what little
restraint they still held, becoming weapons of war without nuance or
wisdom.

Their coming meant only brutal extermination by chainaxe and bolt
shells, and worlds were drowned one by one in the blood of their
inhabitants.

#######  Legion Special Rules {#legion-special-rules-9 .unnumbered}

The following special rules apply to all World Eaters models in a
Legiones Astartes Army.

**Incarnate Violence:** Whenever they make a Fight Roll, all World
Eaters Infantry, Cavalry and Walker models can re-roll a single D6
when making Fight rolls.

![](../media/image338.png)


*At the onset of the galactic civil war the World Eaters were clad in
livery of white, with secondary elements in blue.*

*As the war ground onwards, the blue was replaced by the red of
clotted blood.*

#### The XIIIth Legion - Ultramarines {#the-xiiith-legion-ultramarines .unnumbered}

**Primogenitor:** Roboute Guilliman

**Cognomen:** (Prior) No single recognised cognomen, however several
XIIIth Legion sub-divisions held widely acknowledged de facto cognomen
shortly before reuniting with the Legion's primogenitor (ref. the
Aurorans, the Nemesis, the Desert Lions, etc.)

**Noteworthy Domains:** The Realm of Ultramar, a semi-autonomous
administrative region of the

Ultima Segmentum, accorded full rights of governance

and muster by decree of the Emperor. Primary Legion headquarters
centred on the world of Macragge

**Observed Strategic Tendencies:** Mass Assault, Targeted Decimation,
Planetary Interdiction, Liberation and Limited Theatre Compliance
Campaigns

**Allegiance:** Fidelitas Constantus

The Ultramarines stood as one of the most powerful military forces in
the Imperium. By the end of the Great Crusade, the XIIIth Legion could
call upon an active fighting strength estimated in the region of

a quarter of a million Legiones Astartes, a sector- spanning domain
over which it held overlordship and an unparalleled supply and
training infrastructure that allowed it to withstand losses that would
have crippled other Legions. It would be the Legion's very strength
and power that made it a prime target for the Traitors' conspiracy,
leading to a campaign of destruction that brought widespread ruin to
the Five Hundred Worlds of Ultramar.

#######  Legion Special Rules {#legion-special-rules-10 .unnumbered}

The following special rules apply to all Ultramarines models in a
Legiones Astartes Army.

**Interlocking Tactics:** An Ultramarines model may re-roll any Hit
rolls of a 1 when firing upon an enemy Detachment that has already had
one or more Hits

scored against it this round by an Ultramarines model from the same
Formation as the firing model.

![](../media/image339.png)


*The Ultramarines wear battle plate of azurite blue, with gold banding
and other insignia rendered in white or black.*

#### The XIVth Legion - Death Guard {#the-xivth-legion-death-guard .unnumbered}

**Primogenitor:** Mortarion the Reaper **Cognomen:** (Prior) The Dusk
Raiders **Noteworthy Domains:** Barbarus

**Observed Strategic Tendencies:** Heavy Infantry Assault, Attritional
Warfare, Hazard/Death Zone Warfare, Xenos Eradication and Purgation
Operations

**Allegiance:** Traitoris Perdita

The warriors of the XIVth Legion were the implacable heroes of
Unification. They were stalwart fighters who made endurance under fire
the noblest of pursuits, ever overcoming the most nightmarish foes in
the most inhospitable of war zones. Their ordinal became synonymous
with resilience, unshakable courage and the determination to achieve
victory by any means.

Few Legions had beginnings as glorious as the Death Guard, nor ends as
tragic. From heights of splendour, the Legion and its warriors would
become the very thing they once fought tirelessly against - inhuman,
soulless monsters, little more than nightmares

made manifest.

#######  Legion Special Rules {#legion-special-rules-11 .unnumbered}

The following special rules apply to all Death Guard models in a
Legiones Astartes Army.

**Sons of Barbarus:** Death Guard Detachments do not suffer Hits for
moving through Dangerous terrain.

In addition, at the start of the battle, before any Detachments are
deployed, a player may pick up to two areas of terrain if their Army
contains at least one Death Guard Formation. For the remainder

of the battle, these areas count as Dangerous terrain, in addition to
any other rules that apply.

Two Structures can be selected in place of a single area of terrain.
Each time a model Garrisons or leaves a Structure designated as
Dangerous terrain, it counts as having moved 1" through it.

![](../media/image340.png)


*The Death Guard wear a livery of off -white, with secondary elements
in green and banding of dull gold or bronze.*

*Superficial surface wear and weathering was left unattended until a
campaign's resolution.*

#### The XVth Legion - Thousand Sons {#the-xvth-legion-thousand-sons .unnumbered}

**Primogenitor:** Magnus the Red **Cognomen:** (Prior) None
**Noteworthy Domains:** Prospero

**Observed Strategic Tendencies:** Psychic Warfare, Precision
Assaults, Misdirection, Lore Culling, Macro-coordination Multi-theatre
Campaigns

**Allegiance:** Traitoris Perdita

The Thousand Sons were a Space Marine Legion bound up with occult
lore, mysticism and the otherworldly powers of the psyker. It was
these esoteric arts of war that made it one of the most formidable
Legions, but also one of the most distrusted, and ultimately saw it
become subject to the Emperor's judgement. When it was decreed that
the Legiones Astartes would cease the practice of 'sorcery', Magnus
the Red, Primarch of the Thousand Sons,

and the XVth Legion continued their studies in secret. In doing so,
they set in motion a change of events that would bring ruin to the
Emperor's secret labours upon Terra and cast the Legion into infamy,
its world

destroyed and its warriors forever marred by their own pride and
insatiable quest for knowledge.

#######  Legion Special Rules {#legion-special-rules-12 .unnumbered}

The following special rules apply to all Thousand Sons models in a
Legiones Astartes Army.

**Kine Shields:** Thousand Sons models with the Commander special rule
gain the Shield Generator (6+) special rule.

![](../media/image341.png)


*The primary colour of the Thousand Sons livery is a distinctive red,
with secondary elements picked out in black, white or gold.*

#### The XVIth Legion - Sons of Horus {#the-xvith-legion-sons-of-horus .unnumbered}

**Primogenitor:** Horus Lupercal

**Cognomen:** (Prior) The Luna Wolves

**Noteworthy Domains:** Cthonia, Serenax, resource tithe rights on 37
other primary worlds

**Observed Strategic Tendencies:** Shock Assault, Harrowing Actions
and Strategic Decapitation Strikes

**Allegiance:** Traitoris Maximus

The XVIth Legion was born on Terra, rose to greatness as the Luna
Wolves and descended into the abyss of treachery and infamy as the
Sons of Horus. For much of the early Great Crusade, the XVIth Legion
fought

at the Emperor's side and their Primarch stood as favoured son. The
Legion's warriors were stalwart and indefatigable, their actions
serving to exemplify all that it was to be a warrior of the Legiones
Astartes. Yet in time this mien became corrupted. When the Emperor
returned to Terra and Horus Lupercal was bequeathed the title of
Warmaster, the fate of the Legion was all but sealed. In time, the
Sons of Horus would stand alongside their Primarch in declaring war
upon the Imperium and its Emperor, setting alight the galaxy with
their ambition and shattering the dreams of Unification and peace
amongst the stars.

#######  Legion Special Rules {#legion-special-rules-13 .unnumbered}

The following special rules apply to all Sons of Horus models in a
Legiones Astartes Army.

**Death Dealers:** When a Sons of Horus model issued with an Advance
Order is firing at a target within 6" of it, it may re-roll Hit rolls
of a 1 when firing a weapon with the Light or Light AT trait while the
Order is

in effect.

![](../media/image342.png)


*Upon the elevation of the Warmaster, the XVIth Legion assumed the
metallic green of a sea in storm as its colours.*

*Among the Warmaster's own Legion black came to signify the warrior
elite, while red marked captains and commanders.*

#### The XVIIth Legion - Word Bearers {#the-xviith-legion-word-bearers .unnumbered}

**Primogenitor:** Lorgar the Urizen, also known as Lorgar Aurelian

**Cognomen:** (Prior) The Imperial Heralds, Iconoclasts (informal)

**Noteworthy Domains:** Colchis, Melkeji, Ipisia, Golkoron, garrison
oversight and tithing rights on fifty- three other worlds

**Observed Strategic Tendencies:** Mass Assault, Policing Actions,
Gnoetic Purgation, Suppression of Ideological Revolt

**Allegiance:** Traitoris Maximus

There is little doubt that the Word Bearers stand amongst the highest
circle of treachery. Once,

the XVIIth Legion were the most devoted and rigorous of the Emperor's
armies yet this did not stop them falling and dragging their brother
Legions with

them. From the Legion's founding, its devotion to the Imperium and the
Great Crusade was beyond question, for they were the bearers of the
ideals of the Imperium and its vision for humanity. Yet it was the
methods of devotion that were questioned,

for they were anathema to the tenets of the Imperial Truth, leading
the Emperor to chastise the Word Bearers and its Primarch Lorgar. In
doing so,

he ignited the Legion's quest for a new source of devotion, leading
them to dark powers that lurked beyond the veil. In the final decades
of the Great Crusade the faith of the Word Bearers was unbroken, but
it no longer lay with the Emperor and, through poisoned words and
sinister machinations,

Lorgar and the XVIIth Legion steered Horus

to his fall and the beginning of the Horus Heresy.

#######  Legion Special Rules {#legion-special-rules-14 .unnumbered}

The following special rules apply to all Word Bearers models in a
Legiones Astartes Army.

**True Believers:** Detachments within a Word Bearers Formation never
count as Broken for the purposes of being issued an Order, i.e., they
can be issued any

Order they normally could instead of just the Advance Order or March
Order. In addition, all Word Bearers Detachments ignore the effects of
the Dread Aura (X) special rule.

![](../media/image343.png)


*As the Age of Darkness progressed, the traditional grey of the Word
Bearers was replaced by the deep red shown here, with secondary
elements of black and banding of gold.*

**Primogenitor:** Vulkan

####  The XVIIIth Legion - Salamanders {#the-xviiith-legion-salamanders .unnumbered}

**Observed Strategic Tendencies:** High- intensity or Asymmetric
Warfare, Zone Mortalis

**Cognomen:** (Prior) None officially recognised (see ref: The
Manticore Cataclysm - informal designation 'The Fearless' used by
Imperial Army units)

**Noteworthy Domains:** The Nocturne System (Nocturne Primary, Moon of
Prometheus Legion- Fortress), Caldera (Protectorate), Battle Station
Geryon Deep (Ateraxis System)

Engagements, Planetary Interdiction, Liberation and Defensive
Operations

**Allegiance:** Fidelitas Totalis

The XVIIIth has long been a Legion of hardy survivors, known from its
earliest days for achieving victory against impossible odds. Key to
the Legion's victories was its unrelenting standards of valour and
service, standards which saw the XVIIIth Legion pay heavily

in blood for their distinguished honours. These traits were codified
and actively promoted through the Legion following the rediscovery of
the Primarch Vulkan, who established the Promethean Cult, a body of
doctrine he desired his Legion follow. Core to the Cult's tenets was
the conviction that the Legiones Astartes had been created to liberate
and protect Mankind, with each Space Marine a savage weapon given
physical and spiritual form to fulfil such a purpose. The unwavering
loyalty and honour of the Salamanders saw it suffer greatly during the
opening blows of the Horus Heresy, with much of its strength destroyed
upon the basalt sands of Isstvan V. Yet even driven to the edge of
extinction, its warriors refused to relent, arising from the ashes of
war to take the battle to the Traitors once more.

#######  Legion Special Rules {#legion-special-rules-15 .unnumbered}

The following special rules apply to all Salamanders models in a
Legiones Astartes Army.

**Strength of Will:** When making a Morale check, a Detachment that
contains only Salamanders models rolls two D6 and chooses which result
they prefer.

In addition, all Salamanders Detachments in the Army gain the
Implacable special rule.

![](../media/image344.png)


*The Salamanders wear heraldry of chromium-oxide green, with elements
of flame-orange and black; prominent black hull plates on vehicles
indicate assignment to a Salamanders command unit. Banding is bronze
or gold and often highly sculptural.*

#### The XIXth Legion - Raven Guard {#the-xixth-legion-raven-guard .unnumbered}

**Primogenitor:** Corvus Corax, the Raven Lord

**Cognomen:** (Prior) None officially recognised (early Great Crusade
era, informally: Pale Nomads, Dust Clad)

**Noteworthy Domains:** Deliverance (formerly Lycaeus)/ Kiavahr and
associated system realm. Former Terran central Asiatic Dustfields
tithe rights renounced 998.M30

**Observed Strategic Tendencies:** Rapid Deployment Operations,
Strategic Interdiction Operations

**Allegiance:** Fidelitas Constantus

The XIXth Legion were named for an Ancient Terran herald of fate and
messenger of death, for it is such a spirit that the Raven Guard
exemplify. Throughout the glories of the Unification and the Great
Crusade, the Raven Guard were ever ready to overthrow the tyrant and
the oppressor, and to liberate the scattered realms of Mankind in the
name of justice. From its earliest days, the warriors of the Legion
were known as cunning and patient hunters, adept at biding

their time until the moment to strike was at hand. As masters of
reconnaissance and infiltration,

their doctrines exemplified speed, stealth and precision above all
else. Such skills proved invaluable following the Dropsite Massacre on
Isstvan V, with the scattered remnants of the Legion striking from the
shadows to bleed the Traitors with a thousand cuts.

#######  Legion Special Rules {#legion-special-rules-16 .unnumbered}

The following special rules apply to all Raven Guard models in a
Legiones Astartes Army.

**By Wing and Talon:** All Detachments that contain only Raven Guard
Infantry models gain the Infiltrate special rule - if the Formation
has Dedicated Transports, it does not gain this rule. All Detachments
that contain only Raven Guard Cavalry or Walker models, or Raven Guard
Infantry models with Dedicated Transports, gain the Forward Deployment
special rule.

![](../media/image345.png)


*The Raven Guard value stealth above all, and so go to war clad in the
umbral black of night,*

*with minimal markings in white, grey or sometimes gloss black, while
banding was dulled steel or bronze.*

#### The XXth Legion - Alpha Legion {#the-xxth-legion-alpha-legion .unnumbered}

**Primogenitor:** Alpharius Omegon

**Cognomen:** (Prior) 747 informal cognomen are listed, including: The
Harrowing, The Ghost Legion, The Unbroken Chain, The Strife Wrought,
The Hydra, The Azure Serpent, The Amaranth Coil and simply 'Legion'

**Noteworthy Domains:** Unknown/Unconfirmed

**Observed Strategic Tendencies:** Surprise Assault, Sabotage,
Infiltration, Insurgency and

Counter-insurgency Warfare, Multi-vector Attack, Interplanetary
Pursuit, Decimation Campaigns and Deep-range Raiding Operations

**Allegiance:** Traitoris Perdita

Any study of the XXth Legion is fraught with difficulty, for it is a
Legion wreathed in falsehood, supposition and paradox. Much is told
about the Alpha Legion yet little is known, truths and facts proving
mutable in the face of a Legion that relies upon deception to complete
its work. During the Great Crusade, the Alpha Legion were a highly
independent weapon that neither the Emperor, nor later the Warmaster,
could fully control. The XXth is a force dedicated to the arts of
guile, subterfuge, infiltration and counter-intelligence, intended to
sow dismay and dismantle a foe's resolve and defences piecemeal before
landing the final killing blow. Like all of its motives, the reasoning
behind the Legion's decision to side with the Warmaster during the
Horus Heresy is unknown; reports of Alpha Legion strike forces
hindering both Loyalist and Traitor forces, sometimes in the same war
zone, are rife during the Horus Heresy, prompting speculation that
perhaps they fought for neither the Emperor or Horus, but for their
own shrouded reasons.

#######  Legion Special Rules {#legion-special-rules-17 .unnumbered}

The following special rules apply to all Alpha Legion models in a
Legiones Astartes Army.

**Mutable Tactics:** For each Formation in an Army made up entirely of
Alpha Legion Detachments (ignoring Allied Contingents) the controlling
player may select up to 3 Alpha Legion Detachments in the Army to be
affected by Mutable Tactics. For each Allied Contingent in an Army
made up entirely of Alpha Legion Detachments, the controlling player
may select up to 1 Alpha Legion Detachment to be affected by Mutable
Tactics. Detachments with the Flyer special rule cannot be chosen.

A Detachment chosen to be affected by Mutable Tactics gains a special
rule dependent on the Detachment Type. If a selected Detachment is
made up of Infantry, Cavalry, Walker or Vehicle models, all models
within it gain either the Infiltrate, Outflank or Forward Deployment
special rule - this is chosen by the controlling player and different
Detachments can choose different rules. If the selected Detachment is
of another type, it gains the Forward Deployment rule.

![](../media/image346.png)


*The primary livery of the Alpha Legion was metallic or iridescent
blue-green, with secondary elements of black and banding of gold or
silver.*

![](../media/image347.png)


[]{#_bookmark35 .anchor}*"Let my epitaph be this;*

*I was born nameless and abandoned in the gutter of a sunless pit, but
I have died a conqueror of worlds."*

Reputed last words of Lord Militant Erais Slaithe,

Commander, 74th Expeditionary Fleet, The Fall of Golgothea Terax,

0322884.M30
