## FIGHTING A BATTLE {#fighting-a-battle .unnumbered}

![](../media/image142.png){width="9.448832020997376in"
height="12.99215223097113in"}ach game of Legions Imperialis represents
a battle fought during the galaxy-shattering war

known as the Horus Heresy. The expansive history of that era serves as
a perfect background for your hobby, from assembling and painting a
grand force to recreating some of the most infamous conflicts fought
during the Warmaster's rebellion.

This section of the book focuses on setting up and fighting a battle.
There are various types of battles you can play, some more codified
than others. Here, we'll look at the basics which apply to all games
of Legions Imperialis and take an in-depth look at Matched Play, which
is a style of play intended to present a level playing field for all
players. Open Play and Narrative Play, two alternative styles of play,
will also be touched upon.

Regardless of the style of game being played, all Legions Imperialis
battles have two constants: a Mission and

a battlefield.

#######  The Mission {#the-mission .unnumbered}

Every battle that is fought has objectives, whether that is as simple
as destroying your opponent's Army to more complex goals, such as
capturing key locations or retrieving and escaping with vital
information.

These objectives are determined by a Mission. A Mission describes how
and where on the table players set up their armies and how victory can
be achieved. If relevant, it will also include any special rules which
apply to the battle and any restrictions on Army building. For more
detail on Missions, see page 104.

####### ![](../media/image143.png){width="9.448832020997376in" height="12.99215223097113in"}The Battlefield {#the-battlefield-1 .unnumbered}

The battlefield is where a game of Warhammer: The Horus Heresy --
Legions Imperialis takes place.

It represents one of the countless planets and locales on which the
catastrophic civil war was fought. Battlefields can range from
apocalyptic visions of destruction,

such as ruined cities or broken industrial complexes, to open
wastelands wracked by radiation storms or verdant fields that will
soon be scarred by the ravages

of war. The planets of the galaxy are staggeringly diverse, meaning
battles can be fought on any kind of battlefield you can imagine.

In rules terms, the surface on which a game of Warhammer: The Horus
Heresy -- Legions Imperialis takes place is referred to as the
'battlefield', with each of its edges referred to as a 'battlefield
edge'. Each deployment map will also highlight a battlefield edge, or
part of one

or more battlefield edges, for each deployment zone -- this is the
battlefield edge of the player who deploys in that deployment zone. In
general, the rules and Missions of Legions Imperialis are written with
a 5'x4' battlefield in mind; some Missions might stipulate another
battlefield size to use.

Of course, players can use whatever sized battlefield they have
available to them, be it smaller ones such as a kitchen table or a far
larger one in a local gaming club upon which they can play massive
battles. If players wish to play

on a non-standard table size, then any measurements for factors such
as deployment or objectives should be adjusted to reflect this.

**Battlefield Terrain**

There are few battles that take place over wide-open, featureless
plains. Although games of Legions Imperialis can take place on
battlefields without terrain, the addition of even just a few pieces
makes for a much

more interesting game. As part of the preparation for the battle,
players will need to set up their battlefield terrain -- this is
always done before any Detachments are deployed on the battlefield and
before players determine who deploys where.

There are a variety of ways that terrain can be deployed on the
battlefield:

-   Players can divide the table into quarters and deploy D3+1 areas of
    terrain in each quarter, with players taking turns deploying a piece
    of terrain, starting with the winner of a roll-off. For Structures,
    it is suggested that several individual Structures count as one area

of terrain for the purposes of deploying terrain.

-   Players can collaborate, placing various areas of terrain from those
    available to them to create an interesting battlefield.

-   One player can set up the entire battlefield in a manner of their
    choosing. Then, when it comes to rolling to see who has control of
    the battlefield (see page 101),

the player who did not set up the terrain automatically gains control
of it.

Regardless of the method used, terrain should encourage tactical
decisions and movement amongst armies.

The addition of a cluster of Structures along with a few areas of
Obstructing terrain and/or other line of sight blocking terrain will
greatly influence the flow of battle, restricting avenues of movement
and providing tactical advantages and disadvantages to Detachments.

The hobby section of this book (see page 122) includes a few examples
of Legions Imperialis battlefields to inspire you.

#### ![](../media/image144.png){width="9.448832020997376in" height="12.99215223097113in"}Matched Play {#matched-play .unnumbered}

Matched Play is intended for games where both armies are built to an
equal points total, perfect for those wishing to introduce a
competitive element to their games or

for playing against opponents you do not regularly play against. As
such, Matched Play is perfect for pick-up games in your local gaming
store as well as for use in tournaments and leagues.

A battle fought using the Matched Play rules is generally fought
between two sides, most commonly with one player per side. Each player
builds their Army to a points value agreed upon by the two players.

The most common points value of an Army in Legions Imperialis is 3,000
points, and the rules have been written with this in mind. However,
the rules are designed so points values can be scaled up or down,
meaning players are free to determine the points value between them.

The higher the points value of the armies, the longer a game will
take. Battlefield size may also have to be

adjusted; for games of 2,500 points or fewer, a 4'x4' table is
recommended, while a larger table might be required for higher points
totals, such as a 6'x4' table for games of more than 3,500 points.

If one side includes more players than the other, then the total
points value of both sides should be equal, meaning the side with more
players will have fewer points to spend on each individual player's
armies.

Once a points value has been determined, each player musters their
Army as described on page 126.

**Open Play and Narrative Play**

Although Matched Play is the most commonly used form of play in
Legions Imperialis, it is by no means the only one. Two alternative
examples are known as Open Play and Narrative Play.

In Open Play, players simply pick what models they want to use, place
them on the battlefield and have a good time playing against their
opponent. In general, Open Play doesn't concern itself with the points
values of armies, and the Mission is whatever players decide between
themselves.

In other words, the only restriction in Open Play is your own
imagination.

Narrative Play focuses on the story, taking inspiration from the rich
background of the Horus Heresy. In the majority of cases for Narrative
Play players will choose a Narrative Mission, which will list the
point values for armies, deployment rules and victory conditions.
These Missions will often place restrictions and guidelines on how
players build their armies to better reflect the story the Mission

is portraying. It is similar in many ways to Matched Play, but the key
difference is that the tale is placed at the battle's heart -- not
every Narrative Mission will be fair, and sometimes one side or
another will be outnumbered and/or outgunned. The Mission objectives
will be tailored towards this, creating a thrilling game where players
forge tales that will echo across the years. Players can, of course,
design their own Narrative Missions, using the official examples as
guidance.

Regardless of what method of play you use,

the purpose of Warhammer: The Horus Heresy -- Legions Imperialis is
for everyone to enjoy

themselves -- if that is happening, then you're on the right path.

####### ![](../media/image145.png){width="9.448832020997376in" height="12.99215223097113in"}Selecting a Mission {#selecting-a-mission .unnumbered}

Once all players have assembled their armies, they will need to decide
upon a Mission. Each Mission determines the deployment zones of both
armies, the Primary Objective for both players and, if necessary, how
Objective markers are deployed on the battlefield.

To determine a Mission, one player rolls a D6 to determine which
column from the Mission table that follows is in use. Then the
opposing player rolls a D6 to determine which Mission from that column
is being played, comparing the result against the table rows.

Alternatively, players can simply choose a Mission from the table, so
long as all players agree.

**First D6 Result**

**Second D6 Result 1-3** **4-6**

1.  Confrontation Flanking Action

2.  Seize and Hold Retrieval

3.  No Man's Land Forward Push

4.  Hold Ground Conquest

5.  Stronghold Assault All Out War

6.  Devastation Point Assault

Descriptions of each Mission, along with deployment maps, can be found
on page 104.

####### The Battlefield {#the-battlefield-2 .unnumbered}

**Deployment Map**

Once a Mission has been determined, the battlefield is set up; terrain
is deployed as described on page 99.

The Missions presented in this book assume a battlefield size of
5'x4', and all deployment maps are written with this in mind.
However, players are free to agree amongst themselves the battlefield
size, adjusting deployment zones and Objective marker placement as
needed.

Players must then determine who has 'control of the battlefield'. To
do this, both players roll off once terrain has been set up, with the
winner of the roll-off choosing which player has control of the
battlefield. The player with control of the battlefield chooses a
deployment zone, with the other deployment zone going to the opposing
player.

Once deployment zones have been chosen, players deploy any Objective
markers, as detailed in the Mission's deployment map.

**Objective Markers**

In Legions Imperialis, places of vital importance are represented by
Objective markers. Objective markers can take many different forms,
from simple coloured tokens or bases to custom terrain pieces built to
match a player's Army.

Unless otherwise stated, an Objective marker in Legions Imperialis
should be represented by a token or base 32mm in diameter. A model can
end its move in base contact with an Objective marker and can move
through it without issue but cannot end its move overlapping one.
Regardless of their appearance, Objective markers do not block line of
sight.

When deploying Objective markers, the centre of the base is used when
measuring -- if an Objective marker needs

to be placed 18\" from a battlefield edge, the centre of the base must
be 18\" away. During a battle, any measurement to an Objective marker
is measured from the edge of the marker. Objective markers cannot be
deployed within

an area of Impassable terrain, nor can they be deployed overlapping a
Structure.

When deployed some Objective markers will be deployed outside of
either player's deployment zone.

Objective markers outside either player's deployment zone are referred
to as neutral objectives. Neutral objectives often give different
Victory Points when captured, depending on the Mission being played.

####### Raven Guard 734th Detachment, Death's Deliverance {#raven-guard-734th-detachment-deaths-deliverance .unnumbered}

*Informally titled 'Death's Deliverance', the 734th were assigned to
accompany the fleet of Lion El'Jonson during his campaign of
destruction against Traitor-held worlds following the waning of the
Ruinstorm. With Corax unwilling to divert the bulk of his forces from*

*his guerilla campaign behind Traitor lines, the 734th Detachment
consisted of an uncharacteristic amount of heavy armour, bombardment
tanks and Dreadnoughts, supported by relatively few troops. At
Barbarus, the 734th Detachment reaped a hefty toll of Traitors during
several pivotal battles on the planet's surface, providing close fire
support to the advance of both the Lion and Russ as they spearheaded
assaults on key locations.*

![](../media/image146.png){width="9.448832020997376in"
height="12.99215223097113in"}**Determine Secondary Objective**

Once the battlefield has been set up, both players determine a
Secondary Objective for themselves (or one Secondary Objective per
side for more than two players). Each player has a separate Secondary
Objective that can be different from their opponent's.

To determine a Secondary Objective, both players roll two D6 on the
table below, re-rolling a dice if duplicates are rolled -- they do
this until they have two unique numbers. They then compare the results
against the Secondary Objectives table to determine which objectives
are available to them.

Once this is done, both players secretly choose one of the two
Secondary Objectives available to them --

the other is discarded. Once both players have chosen their Secondary
Objective, they reveal their own to their opponent simultaneously.

**Result Secondary Objective**

1.  Carnage

2.  Vital Intel

3.  Control the Battlefield

4.  Breakthrough

5.  Plant the Standard

6.  Defiant

####### Deployment {#deployment .unnumbered}

After the battlefield has been set up and all objectives have been
determined, the armies are deployed. Players take

it in turns, starting with the player who has control of the
battlefield, to deploy all Detachments within a single Formation -- if
a player runs out of Formations to deploy and the other has not fully
deployed, then they deploy all of their remaining Formations. Once
both players have deployed their armies, the battle begins.

**Reserves**

Some special rules state that a Detachment can be deployed in Reserve.
This means the Detachment in question does not start on the
battlefield and instead is placed to one side -- the Detachment is
referred to as

being in Reserve. To do this, the controlling player simply states
that a Detachment that can be deployed in Reserve is doing so, which
is done whenever that Detachment would normally be deployed upon the
battlefield.

Detachments in Reserve can arrive on the battlefield during the course
of the game. How they arrive depends on the special rule that placed
them in Reserve; Detachments with the Flyer or Drop Pod special rule
can arrive in the first round, while Detachments with the Deep Strike
special rule can arrive in the second round onwards. In general, the
rule in question will state how and where the Detachment can arrive
from. If it does not, then the Detachment can move onto the
battlefield

from the second round onwards -- place the Detachment's models in base
contact with the battlefield edge, after which the Detachment can
complete its activation as normal (i.e., move if its Order allows,
etc.).

Detachments in Reserve do not count as destroyed and are counted for
the purposes of determining a Formation's Break Point (i.e., the total
number of models in the Formation during Army creation is used, not
the total that were deployed on the battlefield). If a Formation
becomes Broken while one or more Detachments within it are in Reserve
then those Detachments do not have to take a Morale check but are
classified as Broken when they arrive on the battlefield.

Detachments in Reserve must be issued an Order as normal and activate
when their Detachment does.

When activated, Detachments in Reserve can do nothing and thus stay in
Reserve, or arrive on the battlefield if their rules allow. As
previously stated, Detachments that are in Reserve must be activated
after all Detachments on the battlefield, unless it is arriving on the
battlefield.

Unless instructed otherwise, if a Detachment in Reserve has not
arrived on the battlefield by the end of the fourth round, it counts
as destroyed, can no longer arrive and can take no further part in the
battle. The sole exception to this are models with the Flyer special
rule -- as Flyers move into and out of Reserves during the course of
the battle, they are not destroyed as described previously.

Any Detachments Embarked upon a Flyer Transport, however, must have
arrived on the battlefield by

the end of the fourth round.

####### ![](../media/image147.png){width="9.448832020997376in" height="12.99215223097113in"}Battle Begins {#battle-begins .unnumbered}

When the battle begins, any effects or special rules which happen at
the start of the battle take place.

If a player has more than one effect which takes place at this time,
they can choose the order in which these

effects happen. If both players have effects that take place at the
start of the battle, the player with control of the battlefield
resolves their effects first.

The first round then begins.

####### Game Length {#game-length .unnumbered}

Unless instructed otherwise, Legions Imperialis Matched Play Missions
last five rounds.

####### Determine Victor {#determine-victor .unnumbered}

Once the battle ends, both players determine the total number of
Victory Points (VPs) they have earned over the battle. The player with
the most VPs is victorious. If both players have the same number of
VPs, the battle is a draw.

**Scoring Victory Points**

In Legions Imperialis, VPs are earned both during the battle and at
the end. Most Missions require the capturing of Objective markers (as
follows), with a player scoring VPs at the end of each round for each
Objective marker they control. In some missions, different Objective
markers

are worth different numbers of VPs, meaning some are more lucrative
than others. The best generals know when to mount an offensive and
when to defend their captured assets; master both and victory will be
yours.

In addition to VPs earned through capturing and holding Objective
markers, each player's Secondary Objective offers additional ways for
them to score VPs at the end of the battle.

**Contested vs. Uncontested Objectives** Many Missions will reference
Uncontested Objectives when awarding Victory Points. If an Objective
marker is Contested then it does not award Victory Points in such
circumstances.

Note, an Objective is not Contested if the controlling player has at
least double the Tactical Strength within 3\" of it as their opponent
and thus it would count as an Uncontested Objective and score VPs. As
such it is important to determine if an Objective is Contested or not
when both players have models within 3\" of it.

**Capturing Objective Markers**

During the course of the battle, both armies can capture Objective
markers scattered across the battlefield.

During the Calculate Victory Points stage of the End phase players
determine if any Objective markers have been captured. To capture an
Objective marker, a player must have at least one model within 3\" of
the marker.

If the opposing player has no models within 3\" of the same marker,
the player captures the Objective and is

said to be in control of it. Once a player has gained control of an
Objective marker, they remain in control of it until the opposing
player captures it -- they do not need to leave models within 3\" of
the marker.

If both players have models within 3\" of an Objective marker then
players should calculate the total Tactical Strength of their models
within 3\" of an Objective.

Each model's Tactical Strength is determined by its type, as shown in
the table below:

**Type Tactical Strength**

**Infantry** 5

**Cavalry and Walkers** 3

**Vehicles and Super-heavy vehicles** 2

**Knights** 1

**Titans** 0

If one player has at least double the Tactical Strength within 3\" of
a marker compared to their opponent, that player captures the
Objective or retains control of it if they had previously captured it.

Otherwise, the Objective is referred to as a Contested Objective and
its status does not change -- if it was uncaptured it remains
uncaptured, or if it was controlled by a player, it remains under
their control.

Models with the Flyer special rule cannot capture or contest
Objectives and are ignored when determining who controls an Objective.
