## MISSIONS {#missions .unnumbered}

![](../media/image148.png){width="9.448832020997376in"
height="12.99215223097113in"}

he following pages list the Matched Play Missions.

Each Mission comprises a deployment map and the conditions for winning
a battle.

After terrain has been set up, the player who wins control of the
battlefield chooses a deployment zone. Deployment zones are indicated
on each Mission's deployment map, represented by different colours for
each zone. In the majority of Missions presented here, a player's
battlefield

edge is the long table edge which is touching the player's deployment
zone -- where this is not the case, the battlefield edge of each
player will be highlighted in a corresponding colour. Any Objective
markers that need to be deployed are represented by black dots.

Some Missions will have additional rules for deployment or special
rules that are active during the battle. These will be listed in the
Mission's description.

## ![](../media/image149.png){width="9.448832020997376in" height="12.99215223097113in"}CONFRONTATION {#confrontation .unnumbered}

*"Peace is built on conquest."*

Attributed to Roboute Guilliman, Primarch of the 13th Legion

**Scoring**

At the end of each round, you score:

-   3 VPs for each Uncontested Objective marker in your deployment zone
    that you control.

-   7 VPs for each Uncontested Objective marker in your opponent's
    deployment zone that you control.

## ![](../media/image150.png){width="9.448832020997376in" height="12.99215223097113in"}SEIZE AND HOLD {#seize-and-hold .unnumbered}

*"In war, you cannot be content with simply holding the ground you have
conquered.*

*Always you must be pushing forwards, to root out the foe where they
hide and squash any notion of resistance."*

Lord Marshall Zivo Marjerl, 514th Garridenal Rifles

**Scoring**

At the end of each round, you score:

-   2 VPs for each Uncontested Objective marker in your deployment zone
    that you control.

-   5 VPs for each Uncontested neutral Objective marker you control.

-   7 VPs for each Uncontested Objective marker in your opponent's
    deployment zone that you control.

## ![](../media/image151.png){width="9.448832020997376in" height="12.99215223097113in"}NO MAN'S LAND {#no-mans-land .unnumbered}

*"Behind each victorious army lies fields of discarded corpses."*

Fleet-wide communiqu√© issued during the Rangdan Xenocides, author
unknown

**Scoring**

At the end of each round, you score:

-   3 VPs if you control a single Uncontested Objective marker.

-   7 VPs if you control two Uncontested Objective markers.

-   11 VPs if you control three Uncontested Objective markers.

## ![](../media/image152.png){width="9.448832020997376in" height="12.99215223097113in"}HOLD GROUND {#hold-ground .unnumbered}

*"Shatter their armies. Seize their cities. Then build anew atop the
broken remnants of their undeserving lives."*

Attributed to Perturabo, Primarch of the IVth Legion

**Scoring**

At the end of each round, you score:

-   2 VPs if you control the Objective marker in your deployment zone
    and it is Uncontested.

-   5 VPs if you control the Objective marker in your opponent's
    deployment zone and it

is Uncontested.

-   9 VPs if you control the Objective marker in the centre of the
    battlefield and it is Uncontested.

## ![](../media/image153.png){width="9.448832020997376in" height="12.99215223097113in"}STRONGHOLD ASSAULT {#stronghold-assault .unnumbered}

*"A fortress circumvented ceases to be an obstacle. A fortress destroyed
ceases to be a threat. Do not forget the difference."*

Attributed to Leman Russ, Primarch of the VIth Legion

**Scoring**

At the end of each round, you score:

-   4 VPs for each Uncontested neutral Objective marker you control.

-   9 VPs if you control the Objective marker in your opponent's
    deployment zone and it

is Uncontested.

At the end of the battle, you score:

-   7 VPs if you control the Objective marker in your deployment zone
    and it is Uncontested.

## ![](../media/image154.png){width="9.448832020997376in" height="12.99215223097113in"}DEVASTATION {#devastation .unnumbered}

*"Let the galaxy burn."*

Attributed to Horus Lupercal, Warmaster and Primarch of the XVIth
Legion

**Scoring**

At the end of each round, you score:

-   5 VPs for each Uncontested Objective marker in your deployment zone
    that you control.

-   3 VPs for each Uncontested neutral Objective marker you control.

**Special Rule:**

**Tactics of Devastation**

At the end of each round, if a player controls an Objective marker in
their opponent's deployment zone, they destroy it. If they do so,
remove the Objective marker from the battlefield -- it no longer plays
any part in the battle. In addition, the player that destroyed it
immediately gains

10 VPs.

## ![](../media/image155.png){width="9.448832020997376in" height="12.99215223097113in"}FLANKING ACTION {#flanking-action .unnumbered}

*"Warfare is not clean. Strike from every angle. Bleed them with a
thousand cuts. Do what must be done to achieve victory -- honour and
dignity are for the weak."*

Attributed to a Princeps of Legio Audax during the Lorin Alpha
Massacres

**Scoring**

At the end of each round, you score:

-   2 VPs if you control the Objective marker in your deployment zone
    and it is Uncontested.

-   4 VPs for each Uncontested neutral Objective marker you control; if
    you control two or more Uncontested neutral Objective markers, you
    gain 6 VPs for each one you control instead.

-   8 VPs if you control the Objective marker in your opponent's
    deployment zone and it

is Uncontested.

## ![](../media/image156.png){width="9.448832020997376in" height="12.99215223097113in"}RETRIEVAL {#retrieval .unnumbered}

*"If I am guilty of anything, it is the pursuit of knowledge."*

Attributed to Magnus the Red, Primarch of the XVth Legion

**Scoring**

At the end of each round, you score:

-   5 VPs for each Uncontested Objective marker you control.

**Special Rule: Protect the Intel** At the end of each round, after
Victory Points have been scored,

if a player controls one or more Uncontested Objective markers, they
can move them -- if both players control Uncontested Objective

markers, the player with the Initiative moves their markers first.

Each Objective marker can move a maximum of 5\" in any direction.

The Objective marker cannot move through enemy models, cannot end its
movement overlapping its base with any other model, a Structure

or an area of Impassable terrain, and cannot move off the battlefield.

## ![](../media/image157.png){width="9.448832020997376in" height="12.99215223097113in"}FORWARD PUSH {#forward-push .unnumbered}

*"Guns up, eyes front, kick 'em in the teeth."*

Regimental Motto of the 71st Yarrdile Rifles, Solar Auxilia

**Scoring**

The further an Objective marker is from a player's battlefield edge,
the greater the number of VPs it is worth to that player.

At the end of each round, you score:

-   3 VPs for each Uncontested Objective marker that you control that is
    18\" away from your battlefield edge.

-   5 VPs for each Uncontested Objective marker that you control that is
    30\" away from your battlefield edge.

-   9 VPs for each Uncontested Objective marker that you control that is
    42\" away from your battlefield edge.

## ![](../media/image158.png){width="9.448832020997376in" height="12.99215223097113in"}CONQUEST {#conquest .unnumbered}

*"No world shall be beyond my rule; no enemy shall be beyond my wrath."*

The Emperor of Mankind, speaking atop Mount Vengeance

**Scoring**

At the end of each round, you score:

-   4 VPs for each Uncontested Objective marker you control.

-   An additional 5 VPs if you control at least three Uncontested
    Objective markers; if one of those markers is within your opponent's
    deployment zone, you score an additional 9 VPs instead.

## ![](../media/image159.png){width="9.448832020997376in" height="12.99215223097113in"}ALL OUT WAR {#all-out-war .unnumbered}

*"Make war and move on, and again, and again, until nothing breathes
which stands against us.*

*All else is sophistry and pretty lies."*

Attributed to Ferrus Manus, Primarch of the Xth Legion

**Objective Makers**

Once both players have chosen their deployment zones, they take it in
turns, starting with the player with control of the battlefield, to
deploy an Objective marker until both players have deployed three
Objective markers.

Players can deploy Objective markers anywhere in their deployment

zone more than 8\" from any battlefield edge and more than 10\" from a
previously deployed Objective marker.

**Deployment**

During the deployment step, all models must be deployed at least 8\"
away from any previously deployed enemy models. Detachments with the
Infiltrate special rule can be deployed in the opposing player's
deployment zone but must still be placed at least 4\" from enemy
models.

**Scoring**

At the end of each round, you score:

-   3 VPs for each Uncontested Objective marker in your deployment zone
    that you control.

-   7 VPs for each Uncontested Objective marker in your opponent's
    deployment zone that you control.

![](../media/image160.png){width="9.448832020997376in"
height="12.99215223097113in"}

## ![](../media/image161.png){width="9.448832020997376in" height="12.99215223097113in"}POINT ASSAULT {#point-assault .unnumbered}

*"Every worthy thing is difficult."*

Attributed to Jaghatai Khan, Primarch of the Vth Legion

**Deployment**

During the deployment step, all models must be deployed at least 3\"
away from any previously deployed enemy models.

**Scoring**

At the end of each round, you score:

-   2 VPs if you control the Objective marker in your deployment zone
    and it is Uncontested.

-   7 VPs if you control the Objective marker in your opponent's
    deployment zone and it

is Uncontested.

-   4 VPs each for any Uncontested neutral Objective marker you control;
    the Objective marker in the centre of the battlefield is counted as
    a neutral Objective. If you control two or more Uncontested neutral
    Objective markers, and one of these is the Objective in the centre
    of the

battlefield, you gain an additional 4 VPs.
