
##  STRATEGIC ASSETS 

hen the Emperor embarked on the Great Crusade, he began the daunting
task of uniting the vast diaspora of humanity. Among these
rediscovered children

of Terra were the Knight Worlds, wondrous feudal kingdoms which had
endured the Age of Strife, their populaces elevating the Scions and
their Knights to the rank of nobility and swearing their fealty to
them. These planets, often isolated frontier realms or domains allied
with nearby Forge Worlds, were notable for the number of ancient
Knight armours they maintained. Each an esoteric artefact of a bygone
age, the Knight armour was akin to the god-engines of the Collegia
Titanica in many of

its technologies, with each Knight piloted by a single brave
individual instilled with a code of honour and chivalry known as a
Knight Scion.

Knight-class walkers were true relics of an age of human history lost
now to allegory and myth. These unique machines and the mind-impulse
systems that control them predate the arts and arcana of the
Mechanicum by a considerable measure, and to the priests of the
Omnissiah they are things of sacred mystery and beauty.

Many of the methods of their construction are beyond the realms of all
but the most learned Magos to fully understand, but the presence of
priceless STC manufacturing units devoted to their construction on
ancient colony worlds of the Knight Households, known collectively as
the Questoris Familia, makes the replication and maintenance of these
powerful machines possible. Serving both as militant worlds and as
archives of technology lost to all others, Knight Worlds are thus
afforded a measure of political and military independence in return
for sharing both strength of arms and knowledge.

####### Using Strategic Assets 

Strategic Assets represent elements of the Imperium's armies that
don't fit neatly into a single Army List or were widespread across the
Expeditionary fleets of the Great Crusade. Included in these ranks are
the god-engines of the Collegia Titanica and the Knight Banners of the
Questoris Familia.

Strategic Assets are not a full Army List and therefore cannot be
chosen as the Primary List of an Army. Instead, it encompasses a
number of Formations that can be used as Allied Contingents within an
Army.

Unless instructed otherwise, any Army can take a Strategic Asset
Formation, though some Detachments may have restrictions as to which
Army they can be included in, such as armies with a particular
Allegiance.

![](../media/image374.png)


## ![](../media/image375.png)LEGIO ASTORUM WARLORD BATTLE TITAN 

####### Dauntless Wrath 

During the defence of Tallarn, the Legio Gryphonicus called upon their
brothers in the Legio Astorum to aid them. While the majority of the
Warp Runners Titans were engaged elsewhere, they were able to send
several maniples to counter the combined might of the Legio Krytos and
their Iron Warriors

allies. *Dauntless Wrath* was one of the Legio Astorum Warlord Titans
to see action on Tallarn and survive the scouring of that world. Later
in the Horus Heresy, veterans of Tallarn would often recall what they
had endured during the fighting on that dead planet, and cite it among
the greatest crimes wrought by the Warmaster.

## ![](../media/image376.png)KNIGHT BANNER 'ZHOLON-KUTHOS' 

#### Legio Ulicon Support Element House Malinax 

**Scouring of Arten's World**

**Thonal Zhul**

**Kzilus Lokazluk**

A Banner-marshal of House Malinax, Zholon-Kuthos commanded numerous
actions in the name of the Warmaster's cause, despite the Forge World
to which Malinax was bonded - Xana - being wont to chart an
autonomous course. In support of the Traitor Legio Ulicon during the
Scouring of Arten's World, Zholon-Kuthos and his underlings slew three
times their own number of Knights of House Vornherr, grievous losses
for a Household already driven to the precipice of extinction due to
the events of Calth.

## ![](../media/image377.png)LEGIO FUREANS 

**Cyra Jal**

**Maeraka Hazn Dakh Cynal**

![](../media/image378.png)


**Leyaka Varr**

**Leyaka Rakis**

The introduction of Reaver class Battle Titans did not occur within
Legio Fureans until its participation during the Great Crusade, with
the Forge World of Incaladion incapable of producing them
independently before the Imperium's arrival. The princeps of the
*Leyaka Rakis* and *Leyaka Varr* were amongst the first to assume
command of such god-engines, pioneering a range of unique manoeuvres
that made novel use of the class' characteristics. These tactics were
of particular use against Loyalist elements on Paramar V, with the two
princeps and their crews accounting for three confirmed Battle Titan
kills between them.

**House Col'Khak Cerastus Knight Atrapos Omnissiah's Will**

**House Vextrix Questoris Knight Styrix Fractured Angel**

![](../media/image379.png)
**House Sidus Questoris Knight Magaera
Ursanghou**

**House Morbidia Cerastus Knight Atrapos Ire of Mars**

####### Strategic Asset Formations 

**Legion Support**

The god-engines of the Collegia Titanica were terrifying weapons of
war, each one capable of obliterating hordes of lesser enemies. Though
it was not unheard of for a Titan Legion to be fielded in large
numbers, it was more common for a small number of god-engines to be
attached to other Imperial forces, lending their considerable might
for the duration of a campaign.

**Knight Household Lance**

Knight Scions would frequently march to battle in Lances, consisting
of a group of Knight armours of the same class commanded by a Scion of
middling rank. These units would act as support elements for Titan
maniples or other Imperial elements, utilising the skill of their
Scions and the wondrous artifice of each Knight to ensure victory.

**COMPULSORY DETACHMENTS**

**COMPULSORY DETACHMENTS**

![](../media/image380.png)


**Paragon of Duty:** Each Knight Scion is a master of battle, trained
in the tactics of their Household. As such,

each Knight model within this Formation that has the Independent
special rule always forms its own Independent Unit, even if there are
several models within a Detachment that have the same name.

*For example:*

*A Questoris Knight Banner consists of a Knight Errant, 2 Knight
Paladin and 1 Questoris Knight Armiger Talon. As such the Detachment
is formed of three Independent Units: a Knight Errant, a Knight
Paladin and a Knight Paladin.*

In some cases, this will mean the entire Detachment is formed of
Independent Units - they still count as

a single Detachment, and so must maintain a Coherency of 6" with at
least one other model in the Detachment, but otherwise can be issued
an Order separately, have some models Engaged and not others, etc.
