
##  THE SOLAR AUXILIA {#the-solar-auxilia .unnumbered}

s formidable as the Legiones Astartes were, their numbers remained far
too small to conquer and protect an entire galaxy. In answer, the
Emperor

established an order known as the Excertus Imperialis, a title that
encompassed the billions of second line and support troops,
functionaries, labourers, void crew,

logisticians and the myriad of other personnel necessary to make the
Great Crusade a reality. The Solar Auxilia was but one highly
specialised division assembled under this title.

Where the Legiones Astartes were intended to serve as standard bearers
of the Great Crusade, the Solar Auxilia were to be the finest fighting
force of the Imperial Army. Elite, disciplined and well-equipped, it
was conceived as a large body of frontline soldiers serving both in
support of the Legiones Astartes and in independent operations.
Amongst the commanders of the Great Crusade, the Solar Auxilia were
considered second only to the Legiones Astartes for military
effectiveness in battle.

By the second century of the Great Crusade, Solar Auxilia forces
formed an estimated one-fifth of the overall Imperialis Auxilia's
void-faring first-line armies. By the time of the Horus Heresy, around
two-thirds of this force was stationed permanently within the
Imperium's boundaries and split between taskforce and garrison
commands, while the remaining strength operated within various
Expeditionary fleets, Rogue Trader detachments and as deep-range
pathfinders. The immense size of the Imperium meant it became
exceedingly common for the military strength of Expeditionary fleets
to not feature any substantial Legiones Astartes presence, with a core
of Solar Auxilia assigned to lead the fleet's war efforts.

Throughout the Great Crusade, immense efforts were placed on
separating newly raised Solar Auxilia cohorts from their origin star
in order to reduce any potential for later rebellion. Thus, the onset
of the Horus Heresy saw many cohorts hold loyalty solely to their
commanders and the Imperium, with the former a far more tangible
reality than the latter. Many cohorts simply followed the whims of
their Lord Marshall, fleet commander or planetary governor, with those
that held direct

links to the Traitor Primarchs, such as the numerous Cthonian
Headhunters cohorts, eagerly supporting the Warmaster in his
treachery.

In some rarer cases, a Solar Auxilia regiment incited rebellion within
systems it stood watch over, undertaking a military coup that enforced
martial law and placed the regiment as de facto power within the
region. While the pivotal moments of the conflict would be decided in
a war between demi-gods and their sons, countless human lives would
rest on the actions of the Solar Auxilia. It remains impossible

to accurately tally the number of petty kingdoms and short-lived
empires that rose during the Horus Heresy, often brought into being by
Solar Auxilia cohorts loyal to the Emperor, the Warmaster or simply
themselves. Regardless, its position as the foremost fighting force
outside of the Legiones Astartes ensured the Solar Auxilia left a
lasting mark on the galaxy, both during the Great Crusade and the
blood-drenched conflict that followed.

#### ![](../media/image348.png){width="9.448832020997376in" height="12.99215223097113in"}The Origins and Principles of the Solar Auxilia {#the-origins-and-principles-of-the-solar-auxilia .unnumbered}

As its name suggests, the origins of the Solar Auxilia lie in the Sol
System. Indeed, the first ten cohorts of the Solar Auxilia, known
collectively as the 'Saturnyne Rams' were formed from the reorganised
and expanded Void Hoplites of the Saturnyne Order, militarised
tech-enclaves that served as a principal power within the Sol System
before the coming of the Legiones Astartes. The tactical principles
and military doctrines of the Solar Auxilia were derived from the
knowledge of the Saturnyne Order and the distilled lessons of
thousands of years of warfare upon Old Earth. As military demands
increased, further cohorts of Solar Auxilia were recruited, first from
Terra and Luna and then from the worlds brought to Compliance.

Over time, the doctrines of the Solar Auxilia changed, organically
adapting to the demands of the Great Crusade. In a manner similar to
the Space Marine Legions, the exact tactics and composition of
different Solar Auxilia cohorts varied depending on the culture from
which it was derived and the necessities placed upon it by their
principal theatres of war. Nevertheless, the most overriding principle
of all cohorts lay in the notion of 'aggressive defence' -- the
seizure of key defensive locations followed by the fortification and
protracted defence of said points. Other common doctrines were
'lightning assault', consisting of massed forces assaulting divided
portions of an enemy line, and the deployment of armoured companies to
obliterate a foe with overwhelming firepower.

Regardless of its organisation, composition and specialisation, the
most vital assets for a Solar Auxilia regiment was its discipline and
the sophistication of its armaments. Over the course of the Great
Crusade, the Solar Auxilia as

a whole earned a reputation for its ability to 'hold the line' even
when fighting alone against a far more numerous foe of unknown
capacity on unfamiliar terrain. Each regiment was a valuable asset to
the Expeditionary fleet or garrison it was stationed with, their
manpower and armaments contributing to some of the greatest victories
of the Great Crusade and most infamous battles of the Horus Heresy.

**Forces of the Great Crusade: Excertus Imperialis**

**Strategic Disposition: Macro-command Level -- Expeditionary
Fleet/Dedicated Battlegroup**

**Primary: Lord Militant/Lord Solar (I)**

Secondary tier by deployment type Lord Marshal

\[Expansion/Battlegroup Command\] Lord Castellan

\[Garrison/Defence Command\] Lord Admiral

\[Primary Fleet Command\]

Individual assets of a Lord Militant of any kind will vary widely, but
will commonly include personal flagship (Capital class), various
escort vessels, retainer cohorts, life guard elite, specialised
irregular regiments, full general staff and analytical cadres,
indentured servants and hirelings, bursary and iterator trains,
emissaries from various potentates and divisions of the Imperium's
body politic, etc.

**Subordinate Officeof the Admiralty & Fleet of the Armada
Imperialis**

*Includes all detached vessels, stations, crews and assets of the
Armada Imperialis under the purview of the Lord Militant, including
its commensurate parallel Naval strategic chain of command (Admiral
Primaris and subordinate). Also, any*

*attached high ranking members of the Astra Telepathica and Navis
Nobilite.*

**Strategic Operational Command**

*Centralised resource of strategic operations and general staff for
the Expeditionary fleet/Battlegroup, as distinct from private retainer
counterparts operating as part of the Lord Militant's personal
retinue.*

Tribunes General and Subordinate Staff Officers, Officio Locum
Strategos, Senior Representatives of the Armourium, Artillerists,
Munitoria, Officio Medicae, Lectato and Discipline Corps.

**Mechanicum Assigned Detachment** *Comprising the independent command
structure of permanently or semi-permanently detached Mechanicum
forces, and their sub-factions.*

\[Primary\] Magos Militant, Enginseer Covenant Excertus, Emissaries
Mechanicum

\[Secondary\] Allied Taghmata, Ordo Reductor, Legio Cybernetica, Legio
Titanicus

![](../media/image349.png){width="9.448832020997376in"
height="12.99215223097113in"}**Extra-Incorporate Assigned Forces**
*Varied and diverse operatives, agencies and irregular forces
operating under the authority of the Lord Militant, but outside of the
usual chain of command, are notionally located in this division of
authority.*

-   Agents of the Imperial Court, Agents of the Assassinorum,
    Plenipotentiary Representatives of the Council of Terra,
    {prohibited}

-   Assigned detachments of the Legiones Astartes, Households of the
    Knights Questoris

-   Rogue Traders Minoris, Chartist Captains, Reflugators, Ordnancers
    Assay & Provender, Justicars Arbites and their respective staffs and
    cadres

-   Deputations of the Orders of Iterators, Remembrancers and Savants
    Logos

-   Warden Charonate, {prohibited},

{prohibited}

**Cohort and Regimental Command Structure \[Simplified Overview\]**

*The bulk of the Excertus Imperialis armed forces are made up of
independently operating regiments, Militia Legions Minoris and Cohort
structured 'sub-armies'. Each of these varies*

*by their internal structure, size, muster and strategic use (and
thereby their equipment and training) as well as their world/system of
raising and/or origin. These are broadly classified and ranked in
order of military power and seniority by the Principia Militaris as
follows:*

**Cohorts and Regiments Primus (II) Cohorts and Regiments Secundus
(III) Militia Legions Minoris (IV) Provender & Labour Auxiliaries**

**Penitentiary and Punishment Cohorts and Legions Minoris**

*Depending on their size and deployment, battlegroups and
Expeditionary fleets may order between a dozen and over a hundred such
independent formations, potentially therefore numbering in the tens of
millions of men and women under arms.*

**Additional Notation**

(I)*A Lord Militant ranks as one of the highest authorities in the
Imperium, equal to the Imperial Commanders of major worlds, and
highest officers of the Imperial Court, in effect, subordinate only to
the will of the Emperor, his personal representatives and, by
extension, the Primarchs.* (II*)Primary level Cohorts and regiments*

*are the most powerful forces within the Excertus, comprising elite
formation such as the Solar Auxilia, Pioneer Regiments,*

*Armoured Cohorts and Regiments of Renown.*

(III)*Secondary level Cohorts and regiments represent a second tier of
ability and force, including many indentured forces from Compliant
worlds, lightly equipped 'regular' forces intended for non-critical
Compliance garrisons, as well as frontline auxiliaries considered to
be liable in*

*some way, such as feral worlders and abhuman regiments.*

(IV)*Militia Legions Minoris are forces raised in extremis from
subordinate local*

*populations, and are often poorly equipped and poorly trained, often
for the purpose of planetary defence emergencies, etc.*

**Strategic Disposition of a Solar Auxilia Cohort**

**Notional Organisation Late Great Crusade Era Exemplar Unit -- 278th
Cohort 'Arkadian' Muster, Solar Pattern**

278th Arkadian Cohort

Cohort Level Assigned Strategic Assets

-   Warships of the Line (Light and Heavy Cruiser, Frigate, Bastion and
    Corvette classes)

-   Warp-capable Troop Transport Vessels

-   Boarding Craft (Shark pattern -- most common)

-   Planetary Landers and Combat Drop Vessels, Orbital Lighters

and Shuttle Craft

-   Light Interface Gunships and Strike Fighter Wings

-   Void Interceptors

-   Super-heavy Tank Detachments

-   Support Artillery and Ordnance Corps

-   Medicae Corps

-   Assigned Mechanicum Enginseer Covenants

**Cohort Strategic Hierarchy**

*Comprising the overall independent strategic and battlefield command
and control functions of the Cohort, as well as its general governance
and logistical directorate.*

**Cohort Supreme Command** Cohort Marshal/Marshal Solar Legate
Marshal/Tribune Ordinate

**Cohort Operations Command** Tribunes (Dictatus, Strategos or Logos)
High Commanders

Legate Commanders

*(Cohort general staff officer and functionary cadre, also attached
advisors and representatives of other arms of the Excertus
Imperialis/Armada Imperialis, etc.).*

**Cohort Vexillarius**

*(Core of veterans and retainers entrusted with the relics and
standards of the Cohort; Standard Bearers, Signifiers, Subalterns,
Bodyguards and Equerries).*

**Officersof the Fleet** *Officersand parallel command structure of
any vessels of the Armada Imperialis*

*given under the Permanent authority of the Cohort's Marshal. Commonly
of no higher independent rank than Captain of the second rating
(Captain-Commander) operating at equivalent rank to a Cohort Tribune.*

![](../media/image350.png){width="9.448832020997376in"
height="12.99215223097113in"}

**Nominal Strength 278th Solar Auxilia Cohort**

Lasrifle Sections (70,000)

Veletaris Sections (3,000) Specialist Weapon Sections (7,000)

Crew, Ancillary, Pioneer, Labour and Support (22,000) Staff and
Command Cadre (1,200)

Fleet Officer Cadre and Voidsman (10,000)

Other (5,000)

**Sub-Cohort Tactical Command** Sub-Commander Lieutenant/Strategos

Sub-Lieutenant/Proclaimator Ensign/Declurion/Vexillarii (Sub-Cohort)

**Tercio Structure of Cohort's Rank and File** *The bulk of the Cohort
is divided up into Tercio pattern troop formations as its essential
building blocks of tactical use and logistical support.*

**Tercio Class: Optimate**

Veletaris Squads and other elite formations Veteran Infantry Units

Dedicated Transportation Crew

**Tercio Class: Militaris**

Line Infantry Sections (Lasrifle, I-III) Dedicated Transportation Crew
Pioneer Sections

**Tercio Class: Ancillary**

Special Weapons Sections Assigned Light Field Support Weapons

(Rapier, Tarantula, etc) Dedicated Transportation Crew

Ogryn Charonite Units and other irregular forces attached to general
structure

*Sub-Cohorts are often 'brigaded' into multiples when a larger force
is required to attain a specific objective. This temporary formation
will be commanded by the most senior-ranked legate present in the
brigade.*

## SOLAR AUXILIA SUB-COHORT {#solar-auxilia-sub-cohort .unnumbered}

*One example of a Sub-Cohort constituted in later Great Crusade era
approved combined arms configuration. In these proportions the
Lasrifle Sections would most likely be serving in support of the Leman
Russ battle tanks rather than the other way around.*

####### Legate Commander {#legate-commander .unnumbered}

*Commanded by a junior legate-level field officer holding one of many
possible titles. Accompanied by a companion bodyguard of veteran
Auxiliaries, some of whom may perform specialist duties such as vox
and augury operators or hold the honour of bearing the Sub-Cohort's
vexilla in battle.*

**Lasrifle Sections**

**Lasrifle Sections**

**Charonite Ogryn Section**

**Leman Russ Battle Tanks**

*Detached from Sub-Cohort Ancillary Support Tercio.*

*Reinforced/amalgamated strength. Detached from Armoured Sub-Cohort to
meet specific tactical objectives.*

**Auxilia Aethon Heavy Sentinel Patrol**

#######  Auxilia Thunderbolt Squadron {#auxilia-thunderbolt-squadron .unnumbered}

*Detached from Sub-Cohort Ancillary Support Tercio.*

*Legate commanders are able to call on Cohort-level air support assets
to perform specific localised support missions.*

####### ![](../media/image351.png){width="9.448832020997376in" height="12.99215223097113in"}Auxilia Arvus Lighter {#auxilia-arvus-lighter .unnumbered}

*Detached from Cohort-level Light Interface Transport echelon to
provide additional battlefield mobility for rapid redeployment,
reinforcement and resupply tasks.*

## ![](../media/image352.png){width="9.448832020997376in" height="12.99215223097113in"}SOLAR AUXILIA ARMOURED COMPANY {#solar-auxilia-armoured-company .unnumbered}

*One example of a Sub-Cohort level formation constituted in later
Great Crusade era approved Armoured Company configuration.*

**Baneblade Super-heavy Tanks**

**Leman Russ Battle Tanks**

**Malcador Tanks**

*There are many possible configurations for an Armoured Company; in
this example the Baneblade super-heavy tanks would be commanded by the
company's commanding field officer and their second in command.*

####### Thunderbolt Fighters {#thunderbolt-fighters .unnumbered}

*Cohort-level air support assets on call for immediate support
taskings.*

#### ![](../media/image353.png){width="9.448832020997376in" height="12.99215223097113in"}Solar Auxilia Army List {#solar-auxilia-army-list .unnumbered}

The following section presents the Army List for the Solar Auxilia,
reflecting the foundation upon which the various Solar Auxilia cohorts
were based. Within you'll find all the rules needed to build a Solar
Auxilia Army.

A Solar Auxilia force can include a maximum of 1 Legate Commander per
full 1,500 points of the points limit (e.g., a 2,000 point Army can
include a single Legate Commander, a 3,000 point Army can include 2
Legate Commanders, etc.).

**Close Formation Fighting:** The Solar Auxilia train to fight
shoulder to shoulder, each warrior supporting those next to them to
present an unyielding wall. A Solar Auxilia Infantry model increases
its CAF by 1 while in base to base contact with one or more friendly
Solar Auxilia Infantry models. If a Detachment is Garrisoned within a
Structure, it is presumed to be in base contact with at least one
other model from that Detachment.

**Solar Auxilia Command Structure:** Many Solar Auxilia Detachments
have the Chain of Command special rule, which limits the Orders they
can be issued with unless they are in range of a Detachment with the
Solar Auxilia HQ (X) special rule. These rules can be found in the
Special Rules section to the right.

**Tank Commander:** Certain Formations and/or Detachments allow a
model to be upgraded to a Tank Commander -- where applicable, this
will be stated in the relevant description. A model upgraded to a Tank
Commander gains the Solar Auxilia HQ (6\") special rule

and increases its Morale characteristic by 1, to a maximum of 2+.

Where possible, a model upgraded to a Tank Commander should be clearly
visible -- this can be done through having an officer in the cupola, a
small banner, an alternative paint scheme or similar identifiable
method.

**Chain of Command:** Detachments with the Chain of Command special
rule can only be issued an Advance Order unless instructed otherwise.
If an Independent Unit (see page 91) contains only models without this
rule, then that Independent Unit can be issued another Order, even if
the larger Detachment can only be issued with the Advance Order.

**Solar Auxilia HQ (X):** If a Detachment with the Chain of Command
special rule has at least one model wholly within the Command Range of
a model with the Solar Auxilia HQ (X) special rule, it can be issued
with any Order it would be eligible to be issued (i.e., First Fire
Order, Charge Order,

March Order or Advance Order), instead of just an Advance Order. A
model's 'Command Range' is a number of inches equal to the value in
brackets noted as part of this special rule. This special

rule does not allow a Broken Detachment to be issued an Order other
than the Advance Order or Charge Order.

![](../media/image354.png){width="9.448832020997376in"
height="12.99213801399825in"}

####### Solar Auxilia Formations {#solar-auxilia-formations .unnumbered}

**Solar Auxilia Sub-Cohort**

A Cohort's strength was commonly divided into 'Sub-Cohorts', each one
assigned its own command structure and support elements to allow it to
operate independently across a theatre of war. The core of each Sub-
Cohorts were the Infantry Tercios, with armoured elements, aerial
squadrons and other ancillary units temporarily assigned.

**Disciplined Ranks**: Compulsory Core Detachment slots within this
Formation must be filled with Auxilia Lasrifle Tercio Detachments.

**COMPULSORY DETACHMENTS OPTIONAL DETACHMENTS**

####### ![](../media/image355.png){width="9.448832020997376in" height="12.99215223097113in"}1349th Solax Auxilia Cohort, Magnathan Thunder Lords {#th-solax-auxilia-cohort-magnathan-thunder-lords .unnumbered}

*The 1349 th Cohort, primarily operated as a mechanised company,
relying on a combination of mobile infantry, armoured batteries and
tank destroyer squadrons to overcome the foe. During the pacification
of the Mourne Uprising, the Cohort earnt the title of 'Thunder Lords'
through their success in massed armoured warfare against dissident
formations on Aramek IV. Despite their enemies' vast numbers, the 1349
th reported a casualty ratio of one hull per ten enemy slain, and the
complete eradication of their enemy in just three orbital cycles.*

*During the Horus Heresy, the 1349 th Cohort returned to Aramek IV to
engage the Night Lords; this conflict saw considerably greater losses,
though the Traitors were ultimately repulsed.*

One of the following:

One of the following:

![](../media/image356.png){width="9.448832020997376in"
height="12.99215223097113in"}**Solar Auxilia Armoured Company**

Armoured Companies were the hammer of Solar Auxilia Cohorts, each one
consisting of dedicated tank squadrons commanded by a seasoned
veteran. When assembled in number, the massed ranks of Solar Auxilia
armour were capable of grinding all resistance beneath their treads.

**COMPULSORY DETACHMENTS OPTIONAL DETACHMENTS**

One of the following:

**Tank Commander**: One Vehicle model from a Compulsory Detachment
must be upgraded to a Tank Commander for +10 points (see page 178).

**Solar Auxilia Pioneer Company**

Formed around a core of Veletaris veterans, and reinforced with
heavier weapons, reconnaissance units and a small number of armour
units, Pioneer Sub-Cohorts were designed to secure and hold forward
positions, preparing the ground for the advance of the remainder of
the Cohort's strength.

**COMPULSORY DETACHMENTS OPTIONAL DETACHMENTS**

One of the following:

**Forward Positions**: Compulsory Core Detachment slots in this
Formation must be filled with

Auxilia Veletaris Storm Sections. All Solar Auxilia Detachments within
a Solar Auxilia Pioneer Company that consist entirely of Infantry
models gain the Infiltrate special rule. All other Solar Auxilia
Detachments within the Solar Auxilia Pioneer Company gain the Forward
Deployment special rule.
